Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that you would bless me indeed, and enlarge my border, and that your hand might be with me, and that you would keep me from evil, that it not be to my sorrow! God granted him that which he requested. - 1 Chronicles 4:10
So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron; and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before the Lord; and they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of the Lord by Samuel. - 1 Chronicles 11:3
David grew greater and greater; for the Lord of hosts was with him. - 1 Chronicles 11:9
For from day to day men came to David to help him, until there was a great army, like the army of God. - 1 Chronicles 12:22
The ark of God remained with the family of Obed-Edom in his house three months: and the Lord blessed the house of Obed-Edom, and all that he had. - 1 Chronicles 13:14
The fame of David went out into all lands; and the Lord brought the fear of him on all nations. - 1 Chronicles 14:17
David spoke to the chief of the Levites to appoint their brothers the singers, with instruments of music, stringed instruments and harps and cymbals, sounding aloud and lifting up the voice with joy. - 1 Chronicles 15:16
Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the Lord with shouting, and with sound of the cornet, and with trumpets, and with cymbals, sounding aloud with stringed instruments and harps. - 1 Chronicles 15:28
Oh give thanks to the Lord. Call on his name. Make his doings known among the peoples. - 1 Chronicles 16:8
Sing to the Lord, all the earth! Display his salvation from day to day. - 1 Chronicles 16:23
Declare his glory among the nations, and his marvelous works among all the peoples. - 1 Chronicles 16:24
For great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised. He also is to be feared above all gods. - 1 Chronicles 16:25
Ascribe to the Lord the glory due to his name. Bring an offering, and come before him. Worship the Lord in holy array. - 1 Chronicles 16:29
Tremble before him, all the earth. The world also is established that it can't be moved. - 1 Chronicles 16:30
Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his loving kindness endures forever. - 1 Chronicles 16:34
 Lord, for your servant's sake, and according to your own heart, you have worked all this greatness, to make known all these great things. - 1 Chronicles 17:19
 Lord, there is none like you, neither is there any God besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears. - 1 Chronicles 17:20
What one nation in the earth is like your people Israel, whom God went to redeem to himself for a people, to make you a name by great and awesome things, in driving out nations from before your people, whom you redeem out of Egypt? - 1 Chronicles 17:21
For your people Israel you made your own people forever; and you, Lord, became their God. - 1 Chronicles 17:22
Let your name be established and magnified forever, saying, 'The Lord of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to Israel. The house of David your servant is established before you.' - 1 Chronicles 17:24
Now, Lord, you are God, and have promised this good thing to your servant. - 1 Chronicles 17:26
Now it has pleased you to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever before you; for you, Lord, have blessed, and it is blessed forever." - 1 Chronicles 17:27
Therefore David blessed the Lord before all the assembly; and David said, "You are blessed, Lord, the God of Israel our father, forever and ever. - 1 Chronicles 29:10
Yours, Lord, is the greatness, the power, the glory, the victory, and the majesty! For all that is in the heavens and in the earth is yours. Yours is the kingdom, Lord, and you are exalted as head above all. - 1 Chronicles 29:11
Both riches and honor come from you, and you rule over all; and in your hand is power and might; and it is in your hand to make great, and to give strength to all. - 1 Chronicles 29:12
Now I beg you, brothers, through the name of our Lord, Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be perfected together in the same mind and in the same judgment. - 1 Corinthians 1:10
For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are dying, but to us who are saved it is the power of God. - 1 Corinthians 1:18
But as it is written, "Things which an eye did not see, and an ear did not hear, which did not enter into the heart of man, these God has prepared for those who love him." - 1 Corinthians 2:9
Now the natural man does not receive the things of God's Spirit, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot know them, because they are spiritually discerned. - 1 Corinthians 2:14
For no one can lay any other foundation than that which has been laid, which is Jesus Christ. - 1 Corinthians 3:11
Therefore it is already altogether a defect in you, that you have lawsuits one with another. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded? - 1 Corinthians 6:7
Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit which is in you, which you have from God? You are not your own, - 1 Corinthians 6:19
yet to us there is one God, the Father, from whom are all things, and we for him; and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and we live through him. - 1 Corinthians 8:6
But be careful that by no means does this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to the weak. - 1 Corinthians 8:9
Do you not know that those who run in a race all run, but one receives the prize? Run like that, that you may win. - 1 Corinthians 9:24
No temptation has taken you except what is common to man. God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted above what you are able, but will with the temptation also make the way of escape, that you may be able to endure it. - 1 Corinthians 10:13
Whether therefore you eat, or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. - 1 Corinthians 10:31
Be imitators of me, even as I also am of Christ. - 1 Corinthians 11:1
But I would have you know that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. - 1 Corinthians 11:3
For as woman came from man, so a man also comes through a woman; but all things are from God. - 1 Corinthians 11:12
Now there are various kinds of gifts , but the same Spirit. - 1 Corinthians 12:4
For as the body is one, and has many members, and all the members of the body, being many, are one body; so also is Christ. - 1 Corinthians 12:12
For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bond or free; and were all given to drink of one Spirit. - 1 Corinthians 12:13
If I speak with the languages of men and of angels, but do not have love, I have become sounding brass, or a clanging cymbal. - 1 Corinthians 13:1
Love is patient and is kind; love does not envy. Love does not brag, is not proud, - 1 Corinthians 13:4
For now we see in a mirror, dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I will know fully, even as I was also fully known. - 1 Corinthians 13:12
But now faith, hope, and love remain-these three. The greatest of these is love. - 1 Corinthians 13:13
But now Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who are asleep. - 1 Corinthians 15:20
Behold, I tell you a mystery. We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed, - 1 Corinthians 15:51
Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the Lord's work, because you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. - 1 Corinthians 15:58
That which was from the beginning, that which we have heard, that which we have seen with our eyes, that which we saw, and our hands touched, concerning the Word of life - 1 John 1:1
that which we have seen and heard we declare to you also , that you also may have fellowship with us. Yes, and our fellowship is with the Father, and with his Son, Jesus Christ. - 1 John 1:3
This is the message which we have heard from him and announce to you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. - 1 John 1:5
But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus , his Son, cleanses us from all sin. - 1 John 1:7
If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. - 1 John 1:8
If we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us the sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. - 1 John 1:9
My little children, I write these things to you so that you may not sin. If anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. - 1 John 2:1
And he is the atoning sacrifice for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the whole world. - 1 John 2:2
Do not love the world, neither the things that are in the world. If anyone loves the world, the Father's love is not in him. - 1 John 2:15
Now, little children, remain in him, that when he appears, we may have boldness, and not be ashamed before him at his coming. - 1 John 2:28
Behold, how great a love the Father has bestowed on us, that we should be called children of God; and such we are. For this cause the world does not know us , because it did not know him. - 1 John 3:1
Beloved, now we are children of God, and it is not yet revealed what we will be. We know that, when he is revealed, we will be like him; for we will see him just as he is. - 1 John 3:2
By this we know love, because he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. - 1 John 3:16
Little children, let us not love in word only, neither with the tongue only, but in deed and truth. - 1 John 3:18
Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits, whether they are of God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world. - 1 John 4:1
You are of God, little children, and have overcome them; because greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world. - 1 John 4:4
Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God; and everyone who loves is born of God, and knows God. - 1 John 4:7
He who does not love does not know God, for God is love. - 1 John 4:8
By this God's love was revealed in us, that God has sent his one and only Son into the world that we might live through him. - 1 John 4:9
In this is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his Son as the atoning sacrifice for our sins. - 1 John 4:10
We know and have believed the love which God has for us. God is love, and he who remains in love remains in God, and God remains in him. - 1 John 4:16
There is no fear in love; but perfect love casts out fear, because fear has punishment. He who fears is not made perfect in love. - 1 John 4:18
We love , because he first loved us. - 1 John 4:19
The testimony is this, that God gave to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. - 1 John 5:11
This is the boldness which we have toward him, that, if we ask anything according to his will, he listens to us. - 1 John 5:14
and keep the instruction of the Lord your God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes, his commandments, his ordinances, and his testimonies, according to that which is written in the law of Moses, that you may prosper in all that you do, and wherever you turn yourself. - 1 Kings 2:3
Judah and Israel were many as the sand which is by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking and making merry. - 1 Kings 4:20
God gave Solomon wisdom and exceptional insight, and very great understanding, even as the sand that is on the seashore. - 1 Kings 4:29
But now the Lord my God has given me rest on every side. There is neither adversary, nor evil occurrence. - 1 Kings 5:4
I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will not forsake my people Israel." - 1 Kings 6:13
He prepared an oracle in the midst of the house within, to set there the ark of the covenant of the Lord. - 1 Kings 6:19
He carved all the walls of the house around with carved figures of cherubim and palm trees and open flowers, inside and outside. - 1 Kings 6:29
and he said, " Lord, the God of Israel, there is no God like you, in heaven above, or on earth beneath; who keep covenant and loving kindness with your servants, who walk before you with all their heart; - 1 Kings 8:23
But will God in very deed dwell on the earth? Behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens can't contain you; how much less this house that I have built! - 1 Kings 8:27
then hear in heaven, and forgive the sin of your people Israel, and bring them again to the land which you gave to their fathers. - 1 Kings 8:34
then hear in heaven, and forgive the sin of your servants, and of your people Israel, when you teach them the good way in which they should walk; and send rain on your land, which you have given to your people for an inheritance. - 1 Kings 8:36
then hear in heaven, your dwelling place, and forgive, and do, and render to every man according to all his ways, whose heart you know; (for you, even you only, know the hearts of all the children of men;) - 1 Kings 8:39
"Blessed be the Lord, who has given rest to his people Israel, according to all that he promised. There has not failed one word of all his good promise, which he promised by Moses his servant. - 1 Kings 8:56
that all the peoples of the earth may know that the Lord, he is God. There is none else. - 1 Kings 8:60
So Solomon held the feast at that time, and all Israel with him, a great assembly, from the entrance of Hamath to the brook of Egypt, before the Lord our God, seven days and seven days, even fourteen days. - 1 Kings 8:65
The Lord said to him, "I have heard your prayer and your supplication, that you have made before me. I have made this house holy, which you have built, to put my name there forever; and my eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually. - 1 Kings 9:3
The Lord listened to the voice of Elijah; and the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived. - 1 Kings 17:22
Elijah came near to all the people, and said, "How long will you waver between the two sides? If the Lord is God, follow him; but if Baal, then follow him." The people answered him not a word. - 1 Kings 18:21
It happened at the time of the offering of the offering, that Elijah the prophet came near, and said, " Lord, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that you are God in Israel, and that I am your servant, and that I have done all these things at your word. - 1 Kings 18:36
Hear me, Lord, hear me, that this people may know that you, Lord, are God, and that you have turned their heart back again." - 1 Kings 18:37
Then the fire of the Lord fell, and consumed the burnt offering, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench. - 1 Kings 18:38
When all the people saw it, they fell on their faces. They said, "The Lord, he is God! The Lord, he is God!" - 1 Kings 18:39
After the earthquake a fire passed; but the Lord was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice. - 1 Kings 19:12
Behold, a prophet came near to Ahab king of Israel, and said, "Thus says the Lord, 'Have you seen all this great multitude? Behold, I will deliver it into your hand this day; and you shall know that I am the Lord.'" - 1 Kings 20:13
Micaiah said, "Therefore hear the word of the Lord. I saw the Lord sitting on his throne, and all the army of heaven standing by him on his right hand and on his left. - 1 Kings 22:19
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy became our father again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, - 1 Peter 1:3
whom not having seen you love; in whom, though now you do not see him, yet believing, you rejoice greatly with joy unspeakable and full of glory- - 1 Peter 1:8
Therefore, prepare your minds for action, be sober and set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ- - 1 Peter 1:13
but just as he who called you is holy, you yourselves also be holy in all of your behavior; - 1 Peter 1:15
If you call on him as Father, who without respect of persons judges according to each man's work, pass the time of your living as foreigners here in reverent fear: - 1 Peter 1:17
Seeing you have purified your souls in your obedience to the truth in sincere brotherly affection, love one another from a pure heart fervently: - 1 Peter 1:22
having been born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, through the living and abiding Word of God. - 1 Peter 1:23
as newborn babies, long for the pure milk of the Word, that you may grow thereby, - 1 Peter 2:2
You also, as living stones, are built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. - 1 Peter 2:5
But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession, that you may proclaim the excellence of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light: - 1 Peter 2:9
having good behavior among the nations, so in that of which they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they see, glorify God in the day of visitation. - 1 Peter 2:12
who his own self bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we, having died to sins, might live to righteousness; by his stripes you were healed. - 1 Peter 2:24
Finally, be all like-minded, compassionate, loving as brothers, tenderhearted, humble , - 1 Peter 3:8
But sanctify in your hearts Christ as Lord ; and always be ready to give an answer to everyone who asks you a reason concerning the hope that is in you, yet with humility and fear: - 1 Peter 3:15
Because Christ also suffered for sins once, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring you to God; being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit; - 1 Peter 3:18
Forasmuch then as Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves also with the same mind; for he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin; - 1 Peter 4:1
Above all things be earnest in your love among yourselves, for love covers a multitude of sins. - 1 Peter 4:8
As each has received a gift, employ it in serving one another, as good managers of the grace of God in its various forms. - 1 Peter 4:10
If anyone speaks, let it be as it were the very words of God. If anyone serves, let it be as of the strength which God supplies, that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom belong the glory and the dominion forever and ever. Amen. - 1 Peter 4:11
Beloved, do not be astonished at the fiery trial which has come upon you, to test you, as though a strange thing happened to you. - 1 Peter 4:12
Shepherd the flock of God which is among you, exercising the oversight, not under compulsion, but voluntarily, according to God ; not for dishonest gain, but willingly; - 1 Peter 5:2
Likewise, you younger ones, be subject to the elder. Yes, all of you clothe yourselves with humility, towards one another; for "God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble." - 1 Peter 5:5
Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time; - 1 Peter 5:6
casting all your worries on him, because he cares for you. - 1 Peter 5:7
Be sober and self-controlled. Be watchful. Your adversary the devil, walks around like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. - 1 Peter 5:8
but to Hannah he gave a double portion; for he loved Hannah, but the Lord had shut up her womb. - 1 Samuel 1:5
Hannah answered, "No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but I poured out my soul before the Lord. - 1 Samuel 1:15
Then Eli answered, "Go in peace; and may the God of Israel grant your petition that you have asked of him." - 1 Samuel 1:17
It happened, when the time had come, that Hannah conceived, and bore a son; and she named him Samuel, saying, "Because I have asked him of the Lord." - 1 Samuel 1:20
But Hannah did not go up; for she said to her husband, "Not until the child is weaned; then I will bring him, that he may appear before the Lord, and stay there forever." - 1 Samuel 1:22
For this child I prayed; and the Lord has given me my petition which I asked of him. - 1 Samuel 1:27
Therefore also I have granted him to the Lord. As long as he lives he is granted to the Lord." He worshiped the Lord there. - 1 Samuel 1:28
"The bows of the mighty men are broken. Those who stumbled are armed with strength. - 1 Samuel 2:4
"The Lord kills, and makes alive. He brings down to Sheol , and brings up. - 1 Samuel 2:6
The Lord makes poor, and makes rich. He brings low, he also lifts up. - 1 Samuel 2:7
He raises up the poor out of the dust. He lifts up the needy from the dunghill, To make them sit with princes, and inherit the throne of glory. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's. He has set the world on them. - 1 Samuel 2:8
Those who strive with the Lord shall be broken to pieces. He will thunder against them in the sky. "The Lord will judge the ends of the earth. He will give strength to his king, and exalt the horn of his anointed." - 1 Samuel 2:10
that the Lord called Samuel; and he said, "Here I am." - 1 Samuel 3:4
The Lord called Samuel again the third time. He arose and went to Eli, and said, "Here I am; for you called me." Eli perceived that the Lord had called the child. - 1 Samuel 3:8
Therefore Eli said to Samuel, "Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he calls you, that you shall say, 'Speak, Lord; for your servant hears.'" So Samuel went and lay down in his place. - 1 Samuel 3:9
The Lord came, and stood, and called as at other times, "Samuel! Samuel!" Then Samuel said, "Speak; for your servant hears." - 1 Samuel 3:10
When the ark of the covenant of the Lord came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again. - 1 Samuel 4:5
Saul said, "There shall not a man be put to death this day; for today the Lord has worked deliverance in Israel." - 1 Samuel 11:13
If you will fear the Lord, and serve him, and listen to his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then both you and also the king who reigns over you are followers of the Lord your God. - 1 Samuel 12:14
"Now therefore stand still and see this great thing, which the Lord will do before your eyes. - 1 Samuel 12:16
So Samuel called to the Lord; and the Lord sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people greatly feared the Lord and Samuel. - 1 Samuel 12:18
Only fear the Lord, and serve him in truth with all your heart; for consider how great things he has done for you. - 1 Samuel 12:24
Samuel said, "Though you were little in your own sight, weren't you made the head of the tribes of Israel? The Lord anointed you king over Israel; - 1 Samuel 15:17
Samuel said, "Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams. - 1 Samuel 15:22
But the Lord said to Samuel, "Do not look on his face, or on the height of his stature; because I have rejected him: for I see not as man sees; for man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart." - 1 Samuel 16:7
Then one of the young men answered, and said, "Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, who is skillful in playing, a mighty man of valor, a man of war, prudent in speech, and a comely person; and the Lord is with him." - 1 Samuel 16:18
But even as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the Good News, so we speak; not as pleasing men, but God, who tests our hearts. - 1 Thessalonians 2:4
we exhorted, comforted, and implored every one of you to lead a life worthy of God, who calls you into his own Kingdom and glory. - 1 Thessalonians 2:12
for this cause, brothers, we were comforted over you in all our distress and affliction through your faith. - 1 Thessalonians 3:7
For what thanksgiving can we render again to God for you, for all the joy with which we rejoice for your sakes before our God; - 1 Thessalonians 3:9
to the end he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints. - 1 Thessalonians 3:13
Finally then, brothers, we beg and exhort you in the Lord Jesus, that as you received from us how you ought to live and to please God, even as you are living , that you excel more and more. - 1 Thessalonians 4:1
that each one of you know how to possess himself of his own vessel in sanctification and honor, - 1 Thessalonians 4:4
For God called us not for uncleanness, but in sanctification. - 1 Thessalonians 4:7
Therefore he who rejects this does not reject man, but God, who has also given his Holy Spirit to you. - 1 Thessalonians 4:8
But we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, concerning those who have fallen asleep, so that you do not grieve like the rest, who have no hope. - 1 Thessalonians 4:13
For this we tell you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left to the coming of the Lord, will in no way precede those who have fallen asleep. - 1 Thessalonians 4:15
For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with God's trumpet. The dead in Christ will rise first, - 1 Thessalonians 4:16
then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air. So we will be with the Lord forever. - 1 Thessalonians 4:17
so then let us not sleep, as the rest do, but let us watch and be sober. - 1 Thessalonians 5:6
But let us, since we belong to the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and, for a helmet, the hope of salvation. - 1 Thessalonians 5:8
For God did not appoint us to wrath, but to the obtaining of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, - 1 Thessalonians 5:9
who died for us, that, whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him. - 1 Thessalonians 5:10
Therefore exhort one another, and build each other up, even as you also do. - 1 Thessalonians 5:11
We exhort you, brothers, admonish the disorderly, encourage the fainthearted, support the weak, be patient toward all. - 1 Thessalonians 5:14
See that no one returns evil for evil to anyone, but always follow after that which is good, for one another, and for all. - 1 Thessalonians 5:15
In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus toward you. - 1 Thessalonians 5:18
Do not quench the Spirit. - 1 Thessalonians 5:19
May the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. May your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. - 1 Thessalonians 5:23
He who calls you is faithful, who will also do it. - 1 Thessalonians 5:24
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. - 1 Thessalonians 5:28
but the goal of this command is love, out of a pure heart and a good conscience and unfeigned faith; - 1 Timothy 1:5
And I thank him who enabled me, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he counted me faithful, appointing me to service; - 1 Timothy 1:12
However, for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first, Jesus Christ might display all his patience, for an example of those who were going to believe in him for eternal life. - 1 Timothy 1:16
Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God , be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. - 1 Timothy 1:17
I exhort therefore, first of all, that petitions, prayers, intercessions, and givings of thanks, be made for all men: - 1 Timothy 2:1
For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, - 1 Timothy 2:5
I desire therefore that the men in every place pray, lifting up holy hands without anger and doubting. - 1 Timothy 2:8
(but if a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the church of God?) - 1 Timothy 3:5
For those who have served well gain for themselves a good standing, and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. - 1 Timothy 3:13
Without controversy, the mystery of godliness is great: He was revealed in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen by angels, preached among the nations, believed on in the world, and received up in glory. - 1 Timothy 3:16
But the Spirit says expressly that in later times some will fall away from the faith, paying attention to seducing spirits and doctrines of demons, - 1 Timothy 4:1
For bodily exercise has some value, but godliness has value in all things, having the promise of the life which is now, and of that which is to come. - 1 Timothy 4:8
Let no man despise your youth; but be an example to those who believe, in word, in your way of life, in love, in faith, and in purity. - 1 Timothy 4:12
Pay attention to yourself, and to your teaching. Continue in these things, for in doing this you will save both yourself and those who hear you. - 1 Timothy 4:16
But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially his own household, he has denied the faith, and is worse than an unbeliever. - 1 Timothy 5:8
I command you in the sight of God, and Christ Jesus, and the chosen angels, that you observe these things without prejudice, doing nothing by partiality. - 1 Timothy 5:21
Lay hands hastily on no one, neither be a participant in other men's sins. Keep yourself pure. - 1 Timothy 5:22
In the same way also there are good works that are obvious, and those that are otherwise cannot be hidden. - 1 Timothy 5:25
But godliness with contentment is great gain. - 1 Timothy 6:6
For we brought nothing into the world, so neither can we carry anything out. - 1 Timothy 6:7
For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. Some have been led astray from the faith in their greed, and have pierced themselves through with many sorrows. - 1 Timothy 6:10
But you, man of God, flee these things, and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, and gentleness. - 1 Timothy 6:11
Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold of the eternal life to which you were called, and you confessed the good confession in the sight of many witnesses. - 1 Timothy 6:12
Charge those who are rich in this present world that they not be haughty, nor have their hope set on the uncertainty of riches, but on God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy; - 1 Timothy 6:17
that they do good, that they be rich in good works, that they be ready to distribute, willing to communicate; - 1 Timothy 6:18
"The house which I build is great; for our God is great above all gods. - 2 Chronicles 2:5
But who is able to build him a house, since heaven and the heaven of heavens can't contain him? Who am I then, that I should build him a house, except just to burn incense before him? - 2 Chronicles 2:6
The priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the Lord to its place, into the oracle of the house, to the most holy place, even under the wings of the cherubim. - 2 Chronicles 5:7
also the Levites who were the singers, all of them, even Asaph, Heman, Jeduthun, and their sons and their brothers, arrayed in fine linen, with cymbals and stringed instruments and harps, stood at the east end of the altar, and with them one hundred twenty priests sounding with trumpets;) - 2 Chronicles 5:12
it happened, when the trumpeters and singers were as one, to make one sound to be heard in praising and thanking the Lord; and when they lifted up their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of music, and praised the Lord, saying, "For he is good; for his loving kindness endures forever," then the house was filled with a cloud, even the house of the Lord, - 2 Chronicles 5:13
Now it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the name of the Lord, the God of Israel. - 2 Chronicles 6:7
He stood before the altar of the Lord in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread forth his hands - 2 Chronicles 6:12
and he said, " Lord, God of Israel, there is no God like you, in heaven, or on earth; you who keep covenant and loving kindness with your servants, who walk before you with all their heart; - 2 Chronicles 6:14
Yet have respect for the prayer of your servant, and to his supplication, Lord my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which your servant prays before you; - 2 Chronicles 6:19
Now when Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down from heaven, and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices; and the glory of the Lord filled the house. - 2 Chronicles 7:1
All the children of Israel looked on, when the fire came down, and the glory of the Lord was on the house; and they bowed themselves with their faces to the ground on the pavement, and worshiped, and gave thanks to the Lord, saying, "For he is good; for his loving kindness endures for ever." - 2 Chronicles 7:3
if my people, who are called by my name, shall humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and will heal their land. - 2 Chronicles 7:14
Now my eyes shall be open, and my ears attentive, to the prayer that is made in this place. - 2 Chronicles 7:15
For now have I chosen and made this house holy, that my name may be there forever; and my eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually. - 2 Chronicles 7:16
After them, out of all the tribes of Israel, such as set their hearts to seek the Lord, the God of Israel, came to Jerusalem to sacrifice to the Lord, the God of their fathers. - 2 Chronicles 11:16
Then the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves; and they said, "The Lord is righteous." - 2 Chronicles 12:6
Asa cried to the Lord his God, and said, " Lord, there is none besides you to help, between the mighty and him who has no strength. Help us, Lord our God; for we rely on you, and in your name are we come against this multitude. Lord, you are our God. Do not let man prevail against you." - 2 Chronicles 14:11
They entered into the covenant to seek the Lord, the God of their fathers, with all their heart and with all their soul; - 2 Chronicles 15:12
and said to the judges, "Consider what you do: for you do not judge for man, but for the Lord; and he is with you in the judgment. - 2 Chronicles 19:6
Now therefore let the fear of the Lord be on you. Take heed and do it: for there is no iniquity with the Lord our God, nor respect of persons, nor taking of bribes." - 2 Chronicles 19:7
and he said, "O Lord, the God of our fathers, aren't you God in heaven? Aren't you ruler over all the kingdoms of the nations? Power and might are in your hand, so that no one is able to withstand you. - 2 Chronicles 20:6
They rose early in the morning, and went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and said, "Listen to me, Judah, and you inhabitants of Jerusalem! Believe in the Lord your God, so you shall be established! Believe his prophets, so you shall prosper." - 2 Chronicles 20:20
When he had taken counsel with the people, he appointed those who should sing to the Lord, and give praise in holy array, as they went out before the army, and say, Give thanks to the Lord; for his loving kindness endures forever. - 2 Chronicles 20:21
He set himself to seek God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding in the vision of God: and as long as he sought the Lord, God made him to prosper. - 2 Chronicles 26:5
Moreover Hezekiah the king and the princes commanded the Levites to sing praises to the Lord with the words of David, and of Asaph the seer. They sang praises with gladness, and they bowed their heads and worshiped. - 2 Chronicles 29:30
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. - 2 Corinthians 1:2
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort; - 2 Corinthians 1:3
Such confidence we have through Christ toward God; - 2 Corinthians 3:4
Now the Lord is the Spirit and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. - 2 Corinthians 3:17
But we all, with unveiled face beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are transformed into the same image from glory to glory, even as from the Lord, the Spirit. - 2 Corinthians 3:18
Therefore we do not faint, but though our outward man is decaying, yet our inward man is renewed day by day. - 2 Corinthians 4:16
For we know that if the earthly house of our tent is dissolved, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal, in the heavens. - 2 Corinthians 5:1
for we walk by faith, not by sight. - 2 Corinthians 5:7
For we must all be revealed before the judgment seat of Christ; that each one may receive the things in the body, according to what he has done, whether good or bad. - 2 Corinthians 5:10
For the love of Christ constrains us; because we judge thus, that one died for all, therefore all died. - 2 Corinthians 5:14
Therefore if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old things have passed away. Behold, new things have come. - 2 Corinthians 5:17
namely, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not reckoning to them their trespasses, and having committed to us the word of reconciliation. - 2 Corinthians 5:19
We are therefore ambassadors on behalf of Christ, as though God were entreating by us: we beg you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. - 2 Corinthians 5:20
For him who knew no sin he made to be sin on our behalf; so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. - 2 Corinthians 5:21
Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers, for what fellowship have righteousness and iniquity? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? - 2 Corinthians 6:14
Having therefore these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. - 2 Corinthians 7:1
For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that you through his poverty might become rich. - 2 Corinthians 8:9
Remember this: he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly. He who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. - 2 Corinthians 9:6
Let each man give according as he has determined in his heart; not grudgingly, or under compulsion; for God loves a cheerful giver. - 2 Corinthians 9:7
Now he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food, will supply and multiply your seed for sowing, and increase the fruits of your righteousness; - 2 Corinthians 9:10
for the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but mighty before God to the throwing down of strongholds, - 2 Corinthians 10:4
throwing down imaginations and every high thing that is exalted against the knowledge of God, and bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ; - 2 Corinthians 10:5
He has said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, for power is made perfect in weakness." Most gladly therefore I will rather glory in my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may rest on me. - 2 Corinthians 12:9
Test your own selves, whether you are in the faith. Test your own selves. Or do you not know as to your own selves, that Jesus Christ is in you?-unless indeed you are disqualified. - 2 Corinthians 13:5
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit, be with you all. - 2 Corinthians 13:14
The elder, to the chosen lady and her children, whom I love in truth; and not I only, but also all those who know the truth; - 2 John 1:1
for the truth's sake, which remains in us, and it will be with us forever: - 2 John 1:2
Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father, and from Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love. - 2 John 1:3
I rejoice greatly that I have found some of your children walking in truth, even as we have been commanded by the Father. - 2 John 1:4
Now I beg you, dear lady, not as though I wrote to you a new commandment, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another. - 2 John 1:5
This is love, that we should walk according to his commandments. This is the commandment, even as you heard from the beginning, that you should walk in it. - 2 John 1:6
For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess that Jesus Christ came in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the Anti-Christ. - 2 John 1:7
Watch yourselves, that you do not lose the things which we have accomplished, but that you receive a full reward. - 2 John 1:8
Whoever goes on and does not remain in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. He who remains in the teaching, the same has both the Father and the Son. - 2 John 1:9
If anyone comes to you, and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house, and do not welcome him, - 2 John 1:10
for he who welcomes him participates in his evil works. - 2 John 1:11
Having many things to write to you, I do not want to do so with paper and ink, but I hope to come to you, and to speak face to face, that our joy may be made full. - 2 John 1:12
The children of your chosen sister greet you. - 2 John 1:13
Elijah took his mantle, and wrapped it together, and struck the waters, and they were divided here and there, so that they two went over on dry ground. - 2 Kings 2:8
It happened, when they had gone over, that Elijah said to Elisha, "Ask what I shall do for you, before I am taken from you." Elisha said, "Please let a double portion of your spirit be on me." - 2 Kings 2:9
It happened, as they still went on, and talked, that behold, a chariot of fire and horses of fire separated them; and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. - 2 Kings 2:11
For thus says the Lord, 'You will not see wind, neither will you see rain; yet that valley shall be filled with water, and you will drink, both you and your livestock and your animals. - 2 Kings 3:17
He went in therefore, and shut the door on them both, and prayed to the Lord. - 2 Kings 4:33
His servant said, "What, should I set this before a hundred men?" But he said, "Give the people, that they may eat; for thus says the Lord, 'They will eat, and will have some left over.'" - 2 Kings 4:43
He answered, "Do not be afraid; for those who are with us are more than those who are with them." - 2 Kings 6:16
Elisha prayed, and said, " Lord, please open his eyes, that he may see." The Lord opened the eyes of the young man; and he saw: and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire around Elisha. - 2 Kings 6:17
He said, "If the Lord doesn't help you, from where could I help you? From of the threshing floor, or from the winepress?" - 2 Kings 6:27
However the Lord would not destroy Judah, for David his servant's sake, as he promised him to give to him a lamp for his children always. - 2 Kings 8:19
But the Lord was gracious to them, and had compassion on them, and had respect to them, because of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them, neither cast he them from his presence as yet. - 2 Kings 13:23
So one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samaria came and lived in Bethel, and taught them how they should fear the Lord. - 2 Kings 17:28
but you shall fear the Lord, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt with great power and with an outstretched arm, and you shall bow yourselves to him, and you shall sacrifice to him. - 2 Kings 17:36
But you shall fear the Lord your God; and he will deliver you out of the hand of all your enemies." - 2 Kings 17:39
He trusted in the Lord, the God of Israel; so that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor among them that were before him. - 2 Kings 18:5
For he joined with the Lord; he did not depart from following him, but kept his commandments, which the Lord commanded Moses. - 2 Kings 18:6
Hezekiah prayed before the Lord, and said, "The Lord, the God of Israel, who sit above the cherubim, you are the God, even you alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth. - 2 Kings 19:15
Now therefore, the Lord our God, save us, I beg you, out of his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you, Lord, are God alone." - 2 Kings 19:19
The remnant that has escaped of the house of Judah shall again take root downward, and bear fruit upward. - 2 Kings 19:30
For out of Jerusalem a remnant will go out, and out of Mount Zion those who shall escape. The zeal of the Lord will perform this.' - 2 Kings 19:31
"Remember now, Lord, I beg you, how I have walked before you in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in your sight." Hezekiah wept bitterly. - 2 Kings 20:3
He did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord, and walked in all the way of David his father, and did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. - 2 Kings 22:2
because your heart was tender, and you humbled yourself before the Lord, when you heard what I spoke against this place, and against its inhabitants, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and have torn your clothes, and wept before me; I also have heard you,' says the Lord. - 2 Kings 22:19
The king went up to the house of the Lord, and all the men of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, and the priests, and the prophets, and all the people, both small and great: and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant which was found in the house of the Lord. - 2 Kings 23:2
The king stood by the pillar, and made a covenant before the Lord, to walk after the Lord, and to keep his commandments, and his testimonies, and his statutes, with all his heart, and all his soul, to confirm the words of this covenant that were written in this book: and all the people stood to the covenant. - 2 Kings 23:3
Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have obtained a like precious faith with us in the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ: - 2 Peter 1:1
Grace to you and peace be multiplied in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord, - 2 Peter 1:2
seeing that his divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and virtue; - 2 Peter 1:3
by which he has granted to us his precious and exceedingly great promises; that through these you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world by lust. - 2 Peter 1:4
Yes, and for this very cause adding on your part all diligence, in your faith supply moral excellence; and in moral excellence, knowledge; - 2 Peter 1:5
and in knowledge, self-control; and in self-control patience; and in patience godliness; - 2 Peter 1:6
and in godliness brotherly affection; and in brotherly affection, love. - 2 Peter 1:7
For if these things are yours and abound, they make you to be not idle nor unfruitful to the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. - 2 Peter 1:8
For he who lacks these things is blind, seeing only what is near, having forgotten the cleansing from his old sins. - 2 Peter 1:9
Therefore, brothers, be more diligent to make your calling and election sure. For if you do these things, you will never stumble. - 2 Peter 1:10
For thus you will be richly supplied with the entrance into the eternal Kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. - 2 Peter 1:11
For we did not follow cunningly devised tales, when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. - 2 Peter 1:16
For he received from God the Father honor and glory, when the voice came to him from the Majestic Glory, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." - 2 Peter 1:17
knowing this first, that no prophecy of Scripture is of private interpretation. - 2 Peter 1:20
For no prophecy ever came by the will of man: but men spoke from God , being moved by the Holy Spirit. - 2 Peter 1:21
This is now, beloved, the second letter that I have written to you; and in both of them I stir up your sincere mind by reminding you; - 2 Peter 3:1
But do not forget this one thing, beloved, that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. - 2 Peter 3:8
The Lord is not slow concerning his promise, as some count slowness; but is patient with you , not wishing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. - 2 Peter 3:9
But the day of the Lord will come as a thief ; in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will be dissolved with fervent heat, and the earth and the works that are in it will be disclosed. - 2 Peter 3:10
Therefore since all these things will be destroyed like this, what kind of people ought you to be in holy living and godliness, - 2 Peter 3:11
looking for and earnestly desiring the coming of the day of God, which will cause the burning heavens to be dissolved, and the elements will melt with fervent heat? - 2 Peter 3:12
But, according to his promise, we look for new heavens and a new earth, in which righteousness dwells. - 2 Peter 3:13
Regard the patience of our Lord as salvation; even as our beloved brother Paul also, according to the wisdom given to him, wrote to you; - 2 Peter 3:15
You therefore, beloved, knowing these things beforehand, beware, lest being carried away with the error of the wicked, you fall from your own steadfastness. - 2 Peter 3:17
But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both now and forever. Amen. - 2 Peter 3:18
David and all the house of Israel played before the Lord with all kinds of instruments made of fir wood, and with harps, and with stringed instruments, and with tambourines, and with castanets, and with cymbals. - 2 Samuel 6:5
Now therefore you shall tell my servant David this, 'Thus says the Lord of hosts, "I took you from the sheep pen, from following the sheep, that you should be prince over my people, over Israel. - 2 Samuel 7:8
I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as at the first, - 2 Samuel 7:10
Then David the king went in, and sat before the Lord; and he said, "Who am I, Lord God, and what is my house, that you have brought me thus far? - 2 Samuel 7:18
Therefore you are great, Lord God. For there is none like you, neither is there any God besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears. - 2 Samuel 7:22
You established for yourself your people Israel to be a people to you forever; and you, Lord, became their God. - 2 Samuel 7:24
"Now, O Lord God, you are God, and your words are truth, and you have promised this good thing to your servant. - 2 Samuel 7:28
Now therefore let it please you to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever before you; for you, Lord God, have spoken it. Let the house of your servant be blessed forever with your blessing." - 2 Samuel 7:29
Be courageous, and let us be strong for our people, and for the cities of our God; and the Lord do that which seems good to him." - 2 Samuel 10:12
For we must die, and are as water split on the ground, which can't be gathered up again; neither does God take away life, but devises means, that he who is banished not be an outcast from him. - 2 Samuel 14:14
God, my rock, in him I will take refuge; my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower, and my refuge. My savior, you save me from violence. - 2 Samuel 22:3
I will call on the Lord, who is worthy to be praised: So shall I be saved from my enemies. - 2 Samuel 22:4
For all his ordinances were before me. As for his statutes, I did not depart from them. - 2 Samuel 22:23
With the merciful you will show yourself merciful. With the perfect man you will show yourself perfect. - 2 Samuel 22:26
With the pure you will show yourself pure. With the crooked you will show yourself shrewd. - 2 Samuel 22:27
For you are my lamp, Lord. The Lord will light up my darkness. - 2 Samuel 22:29
For by you, I run against a troop. By my God, I leap over a wall. - 2 Samuel 22:30
As for God, his way is perfect. The word of the Lord is tested. He is a shield to all those who take refuge in him. - 2 Samuel 22:31
For who is God, besides the Lord? Who is a rock, besides our God? - 2 Samuel 22:32
God is my strong fortress. He makes my way perfect. - 2 Samuel 22:33
You have also given me the shield of your salvation. Your gentleness has made me great. - 2 Samuel 22:36
You have enlarged my steps under me. My feet have not slipped. - 2 Samuel 22:37
The Lord lives! Blessed be my rock! Exalted be God, the rock of my salvation, - 2 Samuel 22:47
Most certainly my house is not so with God, yet he has made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things, and sure, for it is all my salvation, and all my desire, although he doesn't make it grow. - 2 Samuel 23:5
David said to Gad, "I am in distress. Let us fall now into the hand of the Lord; for his mercies are great. Let me not fall into the hand of man." - 2 Samuel 24:14
We are bound to always give thanks to God for you, brothers, even as it is appropriate, because your faith grows exceedingly, and the love of each and every one of you towards one another abounds; - 2 Thessalonians 1:3
so that we ourselves boast about you in the churches of God for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and in the afflictions which you endure. - 2 Thessalonians 1:4
This is an obvious sign of the righteous judgment of God, to the end that you may be counted worthy of the Kingdom of God, for which you also suffer. - 2 Thessalonians 1:5
Since it is a righteous thing with God to repay affliction to those who afflict you, - 2 Thessalonians 1:6
giving vengeance to those who do not know God, and to those who do not obey the Good News of our Lord Jesus, - 2 Thessalonians 1:8
To this end we also pray always for you, that our God may count you worthy of your calling, and fulfill every desire of goodness and work of faith, with power; - 2 Thessalonians 1:11
Let no one deceive you in any way. For it will not be, unless the departure comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction, - 2 Thessalonians 2:3
For the mystery of lawlessness already works. Only there is one who restrains now, until he is taken out of the way. - 2 Thessalonians 2:7
even he whose coming is according to the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders, - 2 Thessalonians 2:9
But we are bound to always give thanks to God for you, brothers loved by the Lord, because God chose you as first fruits for salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief in the truth; - 2 Thessalonians 2:13
So then, brothers, stand firm, and hold the traditions which you were taught by us, whether by word, or by letter. - 2 Thessalonians 2:15
Finally, brothers, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may spread rapidly and be glorified, even as also with you; - 2 Thessalonians 3:1
But the Lord is faithful, who will establish you, and guard you from the evil one. - 2 Thessalonians 3:3
May the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God, and into the patience of Christ. - 2 Thessalonians 3:5
Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you withdraw yourselves from every brother who walks in rebellion, and not after the tradition which they received from us. - 2 Thessalonians 3:6
For you know how you ought to imitate us. For we did not behave ourselves rebelliously among you, - 2 Thessalonians 3:7
neither did we eat bread from anyone's hand without paying for it, but in labor and travail worked night and day, that we might not burden any of you; - 2 Thessalonians 3:8
not because we do not have the right, but to make ourselves an example to you, that you should imitate us. - 2 Thessalonians 3:9
For even when we were with you, we commanded you this: "If anyone will not work, neither let him eat." - 2 Thessalonians 3:10
For we hear of some who walk among you in rebellion, who do not work at all, but are busybodies. - 2 Thessalonians 3:11
Now those who are that way, we command and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ, that with quietness they work, and eat their own bread. - 2 Thessalonians 3:12
But you, brothers, do not be weary in doing well. - 2 Thessalonians 3:13
If any man does not obey our word in this letter, note that man, that you have no company with him, to the end that he may be ashamed. - 2 Thessalonians 3:14
Do not count him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother. - 2 Thessalonians 3:15
Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times in all ways. The Lord be with you all. - 2 Thessalonians 3:16
For this cause, I remind you that you should stir up the gift of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands. - 2 Timothy 1:6
For God did not give us a spirit of fear, but of power, love, and self-control. - 2 Timothy 1:7
Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner; but endure hardship for the Good News according to the power of God, - 2 Timothy 1:8
You therefore, my child, be strengthened in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. - 2 Timothy 2:1
You therefore must share in hardship, as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. - 2 Timothy 2:3
Also, if anyone competes in athletics, he is not crowned unless he has competed by the rules. - 2 Timothy 2:5
Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my Good News, - 2 Timothy 2:8
in which I suffer hardship to the point of chains as a criminal. But God's word is not chained. - 2 Timothy 2:9
Remind them of these things, charging them in the presence of God , that they do not argue about words, to no profit, to the subverting of those who hear. - 2 Timothy 2:14
Give diligence to present yourself approved by God, a workman who does not need to be ashamed, properly handling the Word of Truth. - 2 Timothy 2:15
But shun empty chatter, for they will proceed further in ungodliness, - 2 Timothy 2:16
However God's firm foundation stands, having this seal, "The Lord knows those who are his," and, "Let every one who names the name of the Lord depart from unrighteousness." - 2 Timothy 2:19
Flee from youthful lusts; but pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart. - 2 Timothy 2:22
The Lord's servant must not quarrel, but be gentle towards all, able to teach, patient, - 2 Timothy 2:24
But know this, that in the last days, grievous times will come. - 2 Timothy 3:1
holding a form of godliness, but having denied the power thereof. Turn away from these, also. - 2 Timothy 3:5
But you did follow my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, patience, love, steadfastness, - 2 Timothy 3:10
persecutions, and sufferings: those things that happened to me at Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra. I endured those persecutions. Out of them all the Lord delivered me. - 2 Timothy 3:11
Yes, and all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. - 2 Timothy 3:12
Every Scripture is God-breathed and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for instruction in righteousness, - 2 Timothy 3:16
But you be sober in all things, suffer hardship, do the work of an evangelist, and fulfill your ministry. - 2 Timothy 4:5
I have fought the good fight. I have finished the course. I have kept the faith. - 2 Timothy 4:7
From now on, there is stored up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give to me on that day; and not to me only, but also to all those who have loved his appearing. - 2 Timothy 4:8
And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me for his heavenly Kingdom; to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen. - 2 Timothy 4:18
The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with you. - 2 Timothy 4:22
The elder to Gaius the beloved, whom I love in truth. - 3 John 1:1
Beloved, I pray that you may prosper in all things and be healthy, even as your soul prospers. - 3 John 1:2
For I rejoiced greatly, when brothers came and testified about your truth, even as you walk in truth. - 3 John 1:3
I have no greater joy than this, to hear about my children walking in truth. - 3 John 1:4
Beloved, you do a faithful work in whatever you accomplish for those who are brothers and strangers. - 3 John 1:5
They have testified about your love before the church. You will do well to send them forward on their journey in a manner worthy of God, - 3 John 1:6
because for the sake of the Name they went out, taking nothing from the pagans. - 3 John 1:7
We therefore ought to receive such, that we may be fellow workers for the truth. - 3 John 1:8
I wrote something to the church, but Diotrephes, who loves to be first among them, does not accept what we say. - 3 John 1:9
Therefore, if I come, I will call attention to his deeds which he does, unjustly accusing us with wicked words. Not content with this, neither does he himself receive the brothers, and those who would, he forbids and throws out of the church. - 3 John 1:10
Beloved, do not imitate that which is evil, but that which is good. He who does good is of God. He who does evil hasn't seen God. - 3 John 1:11
Demetrius has the testimony of all, and of the truth itself; yes, we also testify, and you know that our testimony is true. - 3 John 1:12
I had many things to write to you , but I am unwilling to write to you with ink and pen; - 3 John 1:13
but I hope to see you soon, and we will speak face to face. Peace be to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends by name. - 3 John 1:14
For John indeed baptized in water, but you will be baptized in the Holy Spirit not many days from now." - Acts 1:5
But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. You will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the earth." - Acts 1:8
They were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other languages, as the Spirit gave them the ability to speak. - Acts 2:4
'It will be in the last days, says God, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters will prophesy. Your young men will see visions. Your old men will dream dreams. - Acts 2:17
It will be, that whoever will call on the name of the Lord will be saved.' - Acts 2:21
"Men of Israel, hear these words! Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved by God to you by mighty works and wonders and signs which God did by him in the midst of you, even as you yourselves know, - Acts 2:22
him, being delivered up by the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, by the hand of lawless men, crucified and killed; - Acts 2:23
"Let all the house of Israel therefore know certainly that God has made him both Lord and Messiah, this Jesus whom you crucified." - Acts 2:36
Peter said to them, "Repent, and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. - Acts 2:38
Then those who received his word were baptized. There were added that day about three thousand souls. - Acts 2:41
They continued steadfastly in the apostles' teaching and fellowship, in the breaking of bread, and prayer. - Acts 2:42
"Repent therefore, and turn again, that your sins may be blotted out, so that there may come times of refreshing from the presence of the Lord, - Acts 3:19
And there is salvation in none other, for there is no other name under heaven, that is given among men by which we must be saved!" - Acts 4:12
The multitude of those who believed were of one heart and soul. Not one of them claimed that anything of the things which he possessed was his own, but they had all things in common. - Acts 4:32
But Peter and the apostles answered, "We must obey God rather than men. - Acts 5:29
And Peter opened his mouth and said, "Truly I perceive that God does not show favoritism; - Acts 10:34
even Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. - Acts 10:38
They said, "Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household." - Acts 16:31
The God who made the world and all things in it, he, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands, - Acts 17:24
He made from one every nation of men to dwell on all the surface of the earth, having determined appointed seasons, and the boundaries of their dwellings, - Acts 17:26
'For in him we live, and move, and have our being.' As some of your own poets have said, 'For we are also his offspring.' - Acts 17:28
The times of ignorance therefore God overlooked. But now he commands that all people everywhere should repent, - Acts 17:30
But I make my life an account of nothing precious to myself, so that I may finish my race , and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to fully testify to the Good News of the grace of God. - Acts 20:24
Take heed, therefore, to yourselves, and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God which he purchased with his own blood. - Acts 20:28
In all things I gave you an example, that so laboring you ought to help the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that he himself said, 'It is more blessed to give than to receive.'" - Acts 20:35
Thus says the Lord: "For three transgressions of Israel, yes, for four, I will not turn away its punishment; because they have sold the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes; - Amos 2:6
Surely the Lord God will do nothing, unless he reveals his secret to his servants the prophets. - Amos 3:7
"I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and lack of bread in every town; yet you haven't returned to me," says the Lord. - Amos 4:6
So two or three cities staggered to one city to drink water, and were not satisfied: yet you haven't returned to me," says the Lord. - Amos 4:8
"Therefore thus will I do to you, Israel; because I will do this to you, prepare to meet your God, Israel. - Amos 4:12
For, behold, he who forms the mountains, and creates the wind, and declares to man what is his thought; who makes the morning darkness, and treads on the high places of the Earth: The Lord, the God of Hosts, is his name." - Amos 4:13
For thus says the Lord to the house of Israel: "Seek me, and you will live; - Amos 5:4
Seek the Lord, and you will live; lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph, and it devour, and there be no one to quench it in Bethel. - Amos 5:6
seek him who made the Pleiades and Orion, and turns the shadow of death into the morning, and makes the day dark with night; who calls for the waters of the sea, and pours them out on the surface of the earth, the Lord is his name, - Amos 5:8
Therefore a prudent person keeps silent in such a time, for it is an evil time. - Amos 5:13
Seek good, and not evil, that you may live; and so the Lord, the God of Hosts, will be with you, as you say. - Amos 5:14
Hate evil, love good, and establish justice in the courts. It may be that the Lord, the God of Hosts, will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph." - Amos 5:15
Won't the day of the Lord be darkness, and not light? Even very dark, and no brightness in it? - Amos 5:20
Take away from me the noise of your songs! I will not listen to the music of your harps. - Amos 5:23
But let justice roll on like rivers, and righteousness like a mighty stream. - Amos 5:24
Do horses run on the rocky crags? Does one plow there with oxen? But you have turned justice into poison, and the fruit of righteousness into bitterness; - Amos 6:12
Thus the Lord God showed me and behold, the Lord God called for judgment by fire; and it dried up the great deep, and would have devoured the land. - Amos 7:4
Then I said, "Lord God, stop, I beg you! How could Jacob stand? For he is small." - Amos 7:5
The Lord relented concerning this. "This also shall not be," says the Lord God. - Amos 7:6
He said, "Amos, what do you see?" I said, "A basket of summer fruit." Then the Lord said to me, "The end has come on my people Israel. I will not again pass by them any more. - Amos 8:2
Behold, the days come," says the Lord God, "that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord. - Amos 8:11
They will wander from sea to sea, and from the north even to the east; they will run back and forth to seek the word of the Lord, and will not find it. - Amos 8:12
It is he who builds his chambers in the heavens, and has founded his vault on the earth; he who calls for the waters of the sea, and pours them out on the surface of the earth; the Lord is his name. - Amos 9:6
In that day I will raise up the tent of David who is fallen, and close up its breaches, and I will raise up its ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old; - Amos 9:11
I will plant them on their land, and they will no more be plucked up out of their land which I have given them," says the Lord your God. - Amos 9:15
For this cause, we also, since the day we heard this, do not cease praying and making requests for you, that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, - Colossians 1:9
who is the image of the invisible God, existing before all creation. - Colossians 1:15
For by him all things were created, in the heavens and on the earth, things visible and things invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers; all things have been created through him, and for him. - Colossians 1:16
He is before all things, and in him all things are held together. - Colossians 1:17
He is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead; that in all things he might have the preeminence. - Colossians 1:18
whom we proclaim, admonishing every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus; - Colossians 1:28
that their hearts may be comforted, they being knit together in love, and gaining all riches of the full assurance of understanding, that they may know the mystery of God, which is Christ, - Colossians 2:2
As therefore you received Christ Jesus, the Lord, walk in him, - Colossians 2:6
Be careful that you do not let anyone rob you through his philosophy and vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the elements of the world, and not after Christ. - Colossians 2:8
For in him all the fullness of God's nature dwells bodily, - Colossians 2:9
in whom you were also circumcised with a circumcision not made with hands, in the putting off of the body of the flesh, in the circumcision of Christ; - Colossians 2:11
If then you were raised together with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated on the right hand of God. - Colossians 3:1
Set your mind on the things that are above, not on the things that are on the earth. - Colossians 3:2
Put to death, therefore, whatever is worldly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry; - Colossians 3:5
but now you also put them all away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and shameful speaking out of your mouth. - Colossians 3:8
where there cannot be Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bondservant, freeman; but Christ is all, and in all. - Colossians 3:11
Put on therefore, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, a heart of compassion, kindness, lowliness, humility, and perseverance; - Colossians 3:12
bearing with one another, and forgiving each other, if anyone has a complaint against another; even as the Lord forgave you, so you also do. - Colossians 3:13
And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body; and be thankful. - Colossians 3:15
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly; in all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your heart to God. - Colossians 3:16
Whatever you do, in word or in deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father, through him. - Colossians 3:17
And whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord, and not for men, - Colossians 3:23
Continue steadfastly in prayer, watching therein with thanksgiving; - Colossians 4:2
Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time. - Colossians 4:5
Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one. - Colossians 4:6
he reveals the deep and secret things; he knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with him. - Daniel 2:22
Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fiery furnace. He spoke and said, "Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, you servants of the Most High God, come forth, and come here." Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego came forth out of the midst of the fire. - Daniel 3:26
Nebuchadnezzar spoke and said, "Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who has sent his angel, and delivered his servants who trusted in him, and have changed the king's word, and have yielded their bodies, that they might not serve nor worship any god, except their own God. - Daniel 3:28
It has seemed good to me to show the signs and wonders that the Most High God has worked toward me. - Daniel 4:2
How great are his signs and how mighty are his wonders! His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion is from generation to generation. - Daniel 4:3
Then commanded Belshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with purple, and put a chain of gold about his neck, and made proclamation concerning him, that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom. - Daniel 5:29
Then this Daniel was distinguished above the administrators and the satraps, because an extraordinary spirit was in him; and the king thought to set him over the whole realm. - Daniel 6:3
Then the administrators and the satraps sought to find a charge against Daniel regarding the kingdom; but they could find no charge or fault, because he was faithful. Neither was there any error or fault found in him. - Daniel 6:4
Then these men assembled together, and found Daniel making petition and supplication before his God. - Daniel 6:11
Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast him into the den of lions. Now the king spoke and said to Daniel, "Your God whom you serve continually, he will deliver you." - Daniel 6:16
My God has sent his angel, and has shut the lions' mouths, and they have not hurt me; because before him innocence was found in me; and also before you, O king, have I done no wrong." - Daniel 6:22
Then was the king exceedingly glad, and commanded that they should take Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no manner of hurt was found on him, because he had trusted in his God. - Daniel 6:23
I make a decree, that in all the dominion of my kingdom men tremble and fear before the God of Daniel; for he is the living God, and steadfast forever. His kingdom shall not be destroyed; and his dominion shall be to the end. - Daniel 6:26
He delivers and rescues, and he works signs and wonders in heaven and in earth, who has delivered Daniel from the power of the lions." - Daniel 6:27
I saw in the night visions, and behold, there came with the clouds of the sky one like a son of man, and he came even to the Ancient of Days, and they brought him near before him. - Daniel 7:13
But the holy ones of the Most High shall receive the kingdom, and possess the kingdom forever, forever and ever. - Daniel 7:18
I prayed to the Lord my God, and made this confession, "O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps his covenant and loving kindness with those who love him and keep his commandments. - Daniel 9:4
To the Lord our God belong compassion and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him. - Daniel 9:9
Now therefore, our God, listen to the prayer of your servant, and to his petitions, and cause your face to shine on your sanctuary that is desolate, for the Lord's sake. - Daniel 9:17
My God, turn your ear, and hear; open your eyes, and see our desolation, and the city which is called by your name. For we do not present our petitions before you for our righteousness, but for your great mercy. - Daniel 9:18
Lord, hear! Lord, forgive! Lord, listen and take action! Do not delay, for your own sake, my God, because your city and your people are called by your name." - Daniel 9:19
His body was like beryl, and his face like the appearance of lightning, and his eyes like flaming torches, and his arms and his feet like burnished bronze, and the sound of his words like the sound of a multitude. - Daniel 10:6
Then said he to me, "Do not be afraid, Daniel; for from the first day that you did set your heart to understand, and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard. And I have come because of your words. - Daniel 10:12
And those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the heavens, and those who turn many to righteousness like the stars forever and ever. - Daniel 12:3
But go your way until the end. For you shall rest, and shall rise to receive your reward at the end of the days. - Daniel 12:13
The Lord your God has multiplied you, and behold, you are this day as the stars of the sky for multitude. - Deuteronomy 1:10
The Lord, the God of your fathers, make you a thousand times as many as you are, and bless you, as he has promised you! - Deuteronomy 1:11
The Lord your God who goes before you, he will fight for you, according to all that he did for you in Egypt before your eyes, - Deuteronomy 1:30
and in the wilderness, where you have seen how that the Lord your God bore you, as a man does bear his son, in all the way that you went, until you came to this place." - Deuteronomy 1:31
He declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, even the ten commandments; and he wrote them on two tables of stone. - Deuteronomy 4:13
and showing loving kindness to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. - Deuteronomy 5:10
Hear, Israel: the Lord is our God, the Lord is one. - Deuteronomy 6:4
And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might. - Deuteronomy 6:5
These words, which I command you this day, shall be on your heart; - Deuteronomy 6:6
then beware lest you forget the Lord, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. - Deuteronomy 6:12
For you are a holy people to the Lord your God: The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his own possession, above all peoples who are on the face of the earth. - Deuteronomy 7:6
The Lord did not set his love on you, nor choose you, because you were more in number than any people; for you were the fewest of all peoples: - Deuteronomy 7:7
but because the Lord loves you, and because he would keep the oath which he swore to your fathers, has the Lord brought you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you out of the house of bondage, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt. - Deuteronomy 7:8
It shall happen, because you listen to these ordinances, and keep and do them, that the Lord your God will keep with you the covenant and the loving kindness which he swore to your fathers: - Deuteronomy 7:12
You shall not be scared of them; for the Lord your God is in the midst of you, a great and awesome God. - Deuteronomy 7:21
You shall consider in your heart that as a man chastens his son, so the Lord your God chastens you. - Deuteronomy 8:5
For the Lord your God brings you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of springs, and underground water flowing into valleys and hills; - Deuteronomy 8:7
Now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you, but to fear the Lord your God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, - Deuteronomy 10:12
Behold, to the Lord your God belongs heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth, with all that is therein. - Deuteronomy 10:14
Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no more stiff-necked. - Deuteronomy 10:16
He does execute justice for the fatherless and widow, and loves the foreigner, in giving him food and clothing. - Deuteronomy 10:18
that I will give the rain of your land in its season, the former rain and the latter rain, that you may gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil. - Deuteronomy 11:14
and there you shall eat before the Lord your God, and you shall rejoice in all that you put your hand to, you and your households, in which the Lord your God has blessed you. - Deuteronomy 12:7
every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the Lord your God which he has given you. - Deuteronomy 16:17
You shall not wrest justice: you shall not respect persons; neither shall you take a bribe; for a bribe does blind the eyes of the wise, and pervert the words of the righteous. - Deuteronomy 16:19
Be strong and courageous, do not be afraid, nor be scared of them: for the Lord your God, he it is who does go with you; he will not fail you, nor forsake you." - Deuteronomy 31:6
The Rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are justice: a God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and right is he. - Deuteronomy 32:4
The sun also rises, and the sun goes down, and hurries to its place where it rises. - Ecclesiastes 1:5
That which has been is that which shall be; and that which has been done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun. - Ecclesiastes 1:9
He has made everything beautiful in its time. He has also set eternity in their hearts, yet so that man can't find out the work that God has done from the beginning even to the end. - Ecclesiastes 3:11
I know that there is nothing better for them than to rejoice, and to do good as long as they live. - Ecclesiastes 3:12
I know that whatever God does, it shall be forever. Nothing can be added to it, nor anything taken from it; and God has done it, that men should fear before him. - Ecclesiastes 3:14
All go to one place. All are from the dust, and all turn to dust again. - Ecclesiastes 3:20
Better is a handful, with quietness, than two handfuls with labor and chasing after wind. - Ecclesiastes 4:6
Better is a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king who doesn't know how to receive admonition any more. - Ecclesiastes 4:13
Do not be rash with your mouth, and do not let your heart be hasty to utter anything before God; for God is in heaven, and you on earth. Therefore let your words be few. - Ecclesiastes 5:2
Every man also to whom God has given riches and wealth, and has given him power to eat of it, and to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labor-this is the gift of God. - Ecclesiastes 5:19
Better is the end of a thing than its beginning. The patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. - Ecclesiastes 7:8
Do not be hasty in your spirit to be angry, for anger rests in the bosom of fools. - Ecclesiastes 7:9
Wisdom is as good as an inheritance. Yes, it is more excellent for those who see the sun. - Ecclesiastes 7:11
For wisdom is a defense, even as money is a defense; but the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom preserves the life of him who has it. - Ecclesiastes 7:12
Though a sinner commits crimes a hundred times, and lives long, yet surely I know that it will be better with those who fear God, who are reverent before him. - Ecclesiastes 8:12
Then I commended mirth, because a man has no better thing under the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be joyful: for that will accompany him in his labor all the days of his life which God has given him under the sun. - Ecclesiastes 8:15
For all this I laid to my heart, even to explore all this: that the righteous, and the wise, and their works, are in the hand of God; whether it is love or hatred, man doesn't know it; all is before them. - Ecclesiastes 9:1
The words of the wise heard in quiet are better than the cry of him who rules among fools. - Ecclesiastes 9:17
Wisdom is better than weapons of war; but one sinner destroys much good. - Ecclesiastes 9:18
If the axe is blunt, and one doesn't sharpen the edge, then he must use more strength; but skill brings success. - Ecclesiastes 10:10
The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious; but a fool is swallowed by his own lips. - Ecclesiastes 10:12
As you do not know what is the way of the wind, nor how the bones grow in the womb of her who is with child; even so you do not know the work of God who does all. - Ecclesiastes 11:5
Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to see the sun. - Ecclesiastes 11:7
The Preacher sought to find out acceptable words, and that which was written blamelessly, words of truth. - Ecclesiastes 12:10
This is the end of the matter. All has been heard. Fear God, and keep his commandments; for this is the whole duty of man. - Ecclesiastes 12:13
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ; - Ephesians 1:3
even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we would be holy and without blemish before him in love; - Ephesians 1:4
in whom we have our redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, - Ephesians 1:7
in whom you also, having heard the word of the truth, the Good News of your salvation,-in whom, having also believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, - Ephesians 1:13
that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him; - Ephesians 1:17
for by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God, - Ephesians 2:8
For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared before that we would walk in them. - Ephesians 2:10
For he is our peace, who made both one, and broke down the middle wall of partition, - Ephesians 2:14
So then you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but you are fellow citizens with the saints, and of the household of God, - Ephesians 2:19
that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, that you may be strengthened with power through his Spirit in the inward man; - Ephesians 3:16
I therefore, the prisoner in the Lord, beg you to walk worthily of the calling with which you were called, - Ephesians 4:1
with all lowliness and humility, with patience, bearing with one another in love; - Ephesians 4:2
being eager to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. - Ephesians 4:3
Let no corrupt speech proceed out of your mouth, but such as is good for building up as the need may be, that it may give grace to those who hear. - Ephesians 4:29
And be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving each other, just as God also in Christ forgave you. - Ephesians 4:32
For you were once darkness, but are now light in the Lord. Walk as children of light, - Ephesians 5:8
Do not be drunken with wine, in which is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit, - Ephesians 5:18
speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs; singing, and singing praises in your heart to the Lord; - Ephesians 5:19
subjecting yourselves one to another in the fear of Christ. - Ephesians 5:21
Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself up for it; - Ephesians 5:25
Finally, be strong in the Lord, and in the strength of his might. - Ephesians 6:10
Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. - Ephesians 6:11
For our wrestling is not against flesh and blood, but against the principalities, against the powers, against the world's rulers of this darkness, and against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. - Ephesians 6:12
And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the spoken word of God; - Ephesians 6:17
with all prayer and requests, praying at all times in the Spirit, and being watchful to this end in all perseverance and requests for all the saints: - Ephesians 6:18
He brought up Hadassah, that is, Esther, his uncle's daughter; for she had neither father nor mother. The maiden was fair and beautiful; and when her father and mother were dead, Mordecai took her for his own daughter. - Esther 2:7
The king loved Esther more than all the women, and she obtained favor and kindness in his sight more than all the virgins; so that he set the royal crown on her head, and made her queen instead of Vashti. - Esther 2:17
Then the king made a great feast for all his princes and his servants, even Esther's feast; and he proclaimed a holiday in the provinces, and gave gifts according to the king's bounty. - Esther 2:18
"Go, gather together all the Jews who are present in Shushan, and fast for me, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day. I and my maidens will also fast the same way. Then I will go in to the king, which is against the law; and if I perish, I perish." - Esther 4:16
Then the king asked her, "What would you like, queen Esther? What is your request? It shall be given you even to the half of the kingdom." - Esther 5:3
Then Esther the queen answered, "If I have found favor in your sight, O king, and if it please the king, let my life be given me at my petition, and my people at my request. - Esther 7:3
Esther spoke yet again before the king, and fell down at his feet, and begged him with tears to put away the evil of Haman the Agagite, and his plot that he had devised against the Jews. - Esther 8:3
Then the king held out to Esther the golden scepter. So Esther arose, and stood before the king. - Esther 8:4
She said, "If it pleases the king, and if I have found favor in his sight, and the thing seem right to the king, and I am pleasing in his eyes, let it be written to reverse the letters devised by Haman, the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, which he wrote to destroy the Jews who are in all the king's provinces. - Esther 8:5
For how can I endure to see the disaster that would come to my people? How can I endure to see the destruction of my relatives?" - Esther 8:6
Then King Ahasuerus said to Esther the queen and to Mordecai the Jew, "See, I have given Esther the house of Haman, and him they have hanged on the gallows, because he laid his hand on the Jews. - Esther 8:7
In those letters, the king granted the Jews who were in every city to gather themselves together, and to defend their life, to destroy, to kill, and to cause to perish, all the power of the people and province that would assault them, their little ones and women, and to plunder their possessions, - Esther 8:11
Mordecai went out of the presence of the king in royal clothing of blue and white, and with a great crown of gold, and with a robe of fine linen and purple; and the city of Susa shouted and was glad. - Esther 8:15
The Jews had light, gladness, joy, and honor. - Esther 8:16
In every province, and in every city, wherever the king's commandment and his decree came, the Jews had gladness, joy, a feast, and a good day. Many from among the peoples of the land became Jews; for the fear of the Jews was fallen on them. - Esther 8:17
Now in the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, on the thirteenth day of the month, when the king's commandment and his decree drew near to be put in execution, on the day that the enemies of the Jews hoped to conquer them, (but it was turned out the opposite happened, that the Jews conquered those who hated them), - Esther 9:1
the Jews gathered themselves together in their cities throughout all the provinces of the King Ahasuerus, to lay hands on those who wanted to harm them. No one could withstand them, because the fear of them had fallen on all the people. - Esther 9:2
All the princes of the provinces, the satraps, the governors, and those who did the king's business helped the Jews, because the fear of Mordecai had fallen on them. - Esther 9:3
But the Jews who were in Shushan assembled together on the thirteenth and on the fourteenth days of the month; and on the fifteenth day of that month, they rested, and made it a day of feasting and gladness. - Esther 9:18
as the days in which the Jews had rest from their enemies, and the month which was turned to them from sorrow to gladness, and from mourning into a good day; that they should make them days of feasting and gladness, and of sending presents of food to one another, and gifts to the needy. - Esther 9:22
The Jews accepted the custom that they had begun, as Mordecai had written to them; - Esther 9:23
the Jews established, and imposed on themselves, and on their descendants, and on all those who joined themselves to them, so that it should not fail, that they would keep these two days according to what was written, and according to its appointed time, every year; - Esther 9:27
and that these days should be remembered and kept throughout every generation, every family, every province, and every city; and that these days of Purim should not fail from among the Jews, nor the memory of them perish from their seed. - Esther 9:28
He sent letters to all the Jews, to the hundred twenty-seven provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus, with words of peace and truth, - Esther 9:30
For Mordecai the Jew was next to King Ahasuerus, and great among the Jews, and accepted by the multitude of his brothers, seeking the good of his people, and speaking peace to all his descendants. - Esther 10:3
When she could no longer hide him, she took a papyrus basket for him, and coated it with tar and with pitch. She put the child in it, and laid it in the reeds by the river's bank. - Exodus 2:3
The angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. He looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. - Exodus 3:2
Moses said to God, "Who am I, that I should go to Pharaoh, and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt?" - Exodus 3:11
God said to Moses, "I AM WHO I AM," and he said, "You shall tell the children of Israel this: 'I AM has sent me to you.'" - Exodus 3:14
Now therefore go, and I will be with your mouth, and teach you what you shall speak." - Exodus 4:12
Pharaoh said, "Who is the Lord, that I should listen to his voice to let Israel go? I do not know the Lord, and moreover I will not let Israel go." - Exodus 5:2
"Go in, speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land." - Exodus 6:11
Moses said to him, "As soon as I have gone out of the city, I will spread abroad my hands to the Lord. The thunders shall cease, neither shall there be any more hail; that you may know that the earth is the Lord's. - Exodus 9:29
Pharaoh called to Moses and said, "Go, serve the Lord. Only let your flocks and your herds stay behind. Let your little ones also go with you." - Exodus 10:24
The Lord said to Moses, "Pharaoh won't listen to you, that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt." - Exodus 11:9
It shall be, when your son asks you in time to come, saying, 'What is this?' that you shall tell him, 'By strength of hand the Lord brought us out from Egypt, from the house of bondage; - Exodus 13:14
The Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud, to lead them on their way, and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them light, that they might go by day and by night: - Exodus 13:21
The Lord will fight for you, and you shall be still." - Exodus 14:14
Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the Lord caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all the night, and made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided. - Exodus 14:21
The children of Israel went into the midst of the sea on the dry ground, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand, and on their left. - Exodus 14:22
Yah is my strength and song. He has become my salvation. This is my God, and I will praise him; my father's God, and I will exalt him. - Exodus 15:2
Who is like you, Lord, among the gods? Who is like you, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders? - Exodus 15:11
The Lord shall reign forever and ever." - Exodus 15:18
Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a tambourine in her hand; and all the women went out after her with tambourines and with dances. - Exodus 15:20
Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice, and keep my covenant, then you shall be my own possession from among all peoples; for all the earth is mine; - Exodus 19:5
and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests, and a holy nation.' These are the words which you shall speak to the children of Israel." - Exodus 19:6
"I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. - Exodus 20:2
and showing loving kindness to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. - Exodus 20:6
"Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. - Exodus 20:8
"Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land which the Lord your God gives you. - Exodus 20:12
It happened, when Moses came down from Mount Sinai with the two tablets of the testimony in Moses' hand, when he came down from the mountain, that Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone by reason of his speaking with him. - Exodus 34:29
I saw as it were glowing metal, as the appearance of fire within it all around, from the appearance of his waist and upward; and from the appearance of his waist and downward I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and there was brightness around him. - Ezekiel 1:27
As the appearance of the rainbow that is in the cloud in the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness all around. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. When I saw it, I fell on my face, and I heard a voice of one that spoke. - Ezekiel 1:28
You, son of man, do not be afraid of them, neither be afraid of their words, though briers and thorns are with you, and you do dwell among scorpions: do not be afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, though they are a rebellious house. - Ezekiel 2:6
Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me the voice of a great rushing, saying, "Blessed be the glory of the Lord from his place." - Ezekiel 3:12
The glory of the Lord mounted up from the cherub, and stood over the threshold of the house; and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the Lord's glory. - Ezekiel 10:4
Therefore say, 'Thus says the Lord God: "I will gather you from the peoples, and assemble you out of the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel." - Ezekiel 11:17
I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you; and I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh; - Ezekiel 11:19
that they may walk in my statutes, and keep my ordinances, and do them: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God. - Ezekiel 11:20
Then the cherubim lifted up their wings, and the wheels were beside them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. - Ezekiel 11:22
in the mountain of the height of Israel will I plant it; and it shall bring forth boughs, and bear fruit, and be a goodly cedar: and under it shall dwell all birds of every wing; in the shade of its branches shall they dwell. - Ezekiel 17:23
All the trees of the field shall know that I, the Lord, have brought down the high tree, have exalted the low tree, have dried up the green tree, and have made the dry tree to flourish; I, the Lord, have spoken and have done it.'" - Ezekiel 17:24
None of his transgressions that he has committed shall be remembered against him: in his righteousness that he has done he shall live. - Ezekiel 18:22
Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked?" says the Lord God; "and not rather that he should return from his way, and live? - Ezekiel 18:23
Again, when the wicked man turns away from his wickedness that he has committed, and does that which is lawful and right, he shall save his soul alive. - Ezekiel 18:27
For I have no pleasure in the death of him who dies,' says the Lord God: 'therefore turn yourselves, and live.'" - Ezekiel 18:32
Moreover also I gave them my Sabbaths, to be a sign between me and them, that they might know that I am the Lord who sanctifies them. - Ezekiel 20:12
thus says the Lord God: "Remove the turban, and take off the crown; this shall be no more the same; exalt that which is low, and abase that which is high." - Ezekiel 21:26
"'For thus says the Lord God: "Behold, I myself, even I, will search for my sheep, and will seek them out. - Ezekiel 34:11
I will make them and the places around my hill a blessing; and I will cause the shower to come down in its season; there shall be showers of blessing. - Ezekiel 34:26
For I will take you from among the nations, and gather you out of all the countries, and will bring you into your own land. - Ezekiel 36:24
I will also give you a new heart, and I will put a new spirit within you; and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh. - Ezekiel 36:26
I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and you shall keep my ordinances, and do them. - Ezekiel 36:27
Moreover I will make a covenant of peace with them; it shall be an everlasting covenant with them; and I will place them, and multiply them, and will set my sanctuary in their midst forevermore. - Ezekiel 37:26
neither will I hide my face any more from them; for I have poured out my Spirit on the house of Israel,' says the Lord God." - Ezekiel 39:29
Behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east: and his voice was like the sound of many waters; and the earth shined with his glory. - Ezekiel 43:2
It shall be eighteen thousand reeds around: and the name of the city from that day shall be, 'The Lord is there.'" - Ezekiel 48:35
"Thus says Cyrus king of Persia, 'The Lord, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth; and he has commanded me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. - Ezra 1:2
Then the heads of fathers' households of Judah and Benjamin, and the priests, and the Levites, even all whose spirit God had stirred to go up rose up to build the house of the Lord which is in Jerusalem. - Ezra 1:5
All those who were around them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, and with animals, and with precious things, besides all that was willingly offered. - Ezra 1:6
In spite of their fear because of the peoples of the surrounding lands, they set the altar on its base; and they offered burnt offerings on it to the Lord, even burnt offerings morning and evening. - Ezra 3:3
and afterward the continual burnt offering, the offerings of the new moons, of all the set feasts of the Lord that were consecrated, and of everyone who willingly offered a freewill offering to the Lord. - Ezra 3:5
From the first day of the seventh month, they began to offer burnt offerings to the Lord; but the foundation of the Lord's temple was not yet laid. - Ezra 3:6
When the builders laid the foundation of the Lord's temple, they set the priests in their clothing with trumpets, with the Levites the sons of Asaph with cymbals, to praise the Lord, according to the directions of David king of Israel. - Ezra 3:10
They sang to one another in praising and giving thanks to the Lord, "For he is good, for his loving kindness endures forever toward Israel." All the people shouted with a great shout, when they praised the Lord, because the foundation of the house of the Lord had been laid. - Ezra 3:11
But many of the priests and Levites and heads of fathers' households, the old men who had seen the first house, when the foundation of this house was laid before their eyes, wept with a loud voice. Many also shouted aloud for joy, - Ezra 3:12
Be it known to the king, that we went into the province of Judah, to the house of the great God, which is built with great stones, and timber is laid in the walls; and this work goes on with diligence and prospers in their hands. - Ezra 5:8
Thus they returned us answer, saying, "We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth, and are building the house that was built these many years ago, which a great king of Israel built and finished. - Ezra 5:11
Leave the work of this house of God alone; let the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews build this house of God in its place. - Ezra 6:7
The elders of the Jews built and prospered, through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo. They built and finished it, according to the commandment of the God of Israel, and according to the decree of Cyrus, and Darius, and Artaxerxes king of Persia. - Ezra 6:14
The children of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the rest of the children of the captivity, kept the dedication of this house of God with joy. - Ezra 6:16
and kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy: for the Lord had made them joyful, and had turned the heart of the king of Assyria to them, to strengthen their hands in the work of God's house, the God of Israel. - Ezra 6:22
this Ezra went up from Babylon: and he was a ready scribe in the law of Moses, which the Lord, the God of Israel, had given; and the king granted him all his request, according to the hand of the Lord his God on him. - Ezra 7:6
For Ezra had set his heart to seek the law of the Lord, and to do it, and to teach in Israel statutes and ordinances. - Ezra 7:10
For I was ashamed to ask of the king a band of soldiers and horsemen to help us against the enemy in the way, because we had spoken to the king, saying, "The hand of our God is on all those who seek him, for good; but his power and his wrath is against all those who forsake him." - Ezra 8:22
So we fasted and begged our God for this: and he was entreated of us. - Ezra 8:23
Then we departed from the river Ahava on the twelfth day of the first month, to go to Jerusalem: and the hand of our God was on us, and he delivered us from the hand of the enemy and the bandit by the way. - Ezra 8:31
Now for a little moment grace has been shown from the Lord our God, to leave us a remnant to escape, and to give us a nail in his holy place, that our God may lighten our eyes, and give us a little reviving in our bondage. - Ezra 9:8
For we are bondservants; yet our God has not forsaken us in our bondage, but has extended loving kindness to us in the sight of the kings of Persia, to give us a reviving, to set up the house of our God, and to repair its ruins, and to give us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem. - Ezra 9:9
"After all that has come on us for our evil deeds, and for our great guilt, since you, our God, have punished us less than our iniquities deserve, and have given us such a remnant, - Ezra 9:13
The Lord, the God of Israel, you are righteous; for we are left a remnant that has escaped, as it is this day. Behold, we are before you in our guiltiness; for none can stand before you because of this." - Ezra 9:15
Now while Ezra prayed and made confession, weeping and casting himself down before God's house, there was gathered together to him out of Israel a very great assembly of men and women and children; for the people wept very bitterly. - Ezra 10:1
For am I now seeking the favor of men, or of God? Or am I striving to please men? For if I were still pleasing men, I would not be a servant of Christ. - Galatians 1:10
yet knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law but through faith in Jesus Christ, even we believed in Christ Jesus, that we might be justified by faith in Christ, and not by the works of the law, because no flesh will be justified by the works of the law. - Galatians 2:16
I have been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I that live, but Christ living in me. That life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself up for me. - Galatians 2:20
For as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse. For it is written, "Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all things that are written in the scroll of the Law, to do them." - Galatians 3:10
Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, "Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree," - Galatians 3:13
Now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He does not say, "To seeds," as of many, but as of one, "To your seed," which is Christ. - Galatians 3:16
So that the law has become our tutor to bring us to Christ, that we might be justified by faith. - Galatians 3:24
For you are all children of God, through faith in Christ Jesus. - Galatians 3:26
For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. - Galatians 3:27
There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free man, there is neither male nor female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus. - Galatians 3:28
And because you are children, God sent out the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, "Abba, Father!" - Galatians 4:6
So you are no longer a bondservant, but a son; and if a son, then an heir of God. - Galatians 4:7
Stand firm therefore in the liberty by which Christ has made us free, and do not be entangled again with a yoke of bondage. - Galatians 5:1
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision amounts to anything, nor uncircumcision, but faith working through love. - Galatians 5:6
For you, brothers, were called for freedom. Only do not use your freedom for gain to the flesh, but through love be servants to one another. - Galatians 5:13
For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in this: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself." - Galatians 5:14
But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desires of the flesh. - Galatians 5:16
For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; and these are contrary to one another, that you may not do the things that you desire. - Galatians 5:17
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faith, - Galatians 5:22
Brothers, even if a man is caught in some fault, you who are spiritual must restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness; looking to yourself so that you also are not tempted. - Galatians 6:1
Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the Law of Christ. - Galatians 6:2
Do not be deceived. God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, that he will also reap. - Galatians 6:7
Let us not be weary in doing good, for we will reap in due season, if we do not give up. - Galatians 6:9
So then, as we have opportunity, let us do what is good toward all men, and especially toward those who are of the household of the faith. - Galatians 6:10
But far be it from me to boast, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. - Galatians 6:14
In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. - Genesis 1:1
Now the earth was formless and empty. Darkness was on the surface of the deep. God's Spirit was hovering over the surface of the waters. - Genesis 1:2
God said, "Let there be light," and there was light. - Genesis 1:3
God said, "Let the waters under the sky be gathered together in one gathering, and let the dry land appear;" and it was so. - Genesis 1:9
God said, "Let the earth put forth grass, herbs yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit after their kind, with its seed in it, on the earth;" and it was so. - Genesis 1:11
God said, "Let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth in the open expanse of sky." - Genesis 1:20
God said, "Let the earth bring forth living creatures after their kind, livestock, creeping things, and animals of the earth after their kind;" and it was so. - Genesis 1:24
God created man in his own image. In God's image he created him; male and female he created them. - Genesis 1:27
God blessed them. God said to them, "Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the sky, and over every living thing that moves on the earth." - Genesis 1:28
God blessed the seventh day, and made it holy, because he rested in it from all his work which he had created and made. - Genesis 2:3
The Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul. - Genesis 2:7
The Lord God planted a garden eastward, in Eden, and there he put the man whom he had formed. - Genesis 2:8
So he drove out the man; and he placed Cherubs at the east of the garden of Eden, and the flame of a sword which turned every way, to guard the way to the tree of life. - Genesis 3:24
If you do well, will it not be lifted up? If you do not do well, sin crouches at the door. Its desire is for you, but you are to rule over it." - Genesis 4:7
Seth lived after he became the father of Enosh eight hundred seven years, and became the father of sons and daughters. - Genesis 5:7
Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. - Genesis 5:24
went by pairs to Noah into the ship, male and female, as God commanded Noah. - Genesis 7:9
In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on the same day all the fountains of the great deep were burst open, and the sky's windows were opened. - Genesis 7:11
The rainbow will be in the cloud. I will look at it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth." - Genesis 9:16
I will make of you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great. You will be a blessing. - Genesis 12:2
I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you. In you will all of the families of the earth be blessed." - Genesis 12:3
Melchizedek king of Salem brought out bread and wine: and he was priest of God Most High. - Genesis 14:18
After these things the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision, saying, "Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your exceedingly great reward." - Genesis 15:1
He believed in the Lord; and he reckoned it to him for righteousness. - Genesis 15:6
As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save many people alive. - Genesis 50:20
The oracle which Habakkuk the prophet saw. - Habakkuk 1:1
Why do you show me iniquity, and look at perversity? For destruction and violence are before me. There is strife, and contention rises up. - Habakkuk 1:3
Therefore the law is paralyzed, and justice never goes forth; for the wicked surround the righteous; therefore justice goes forth perverted. - Habakkuk 1:4
"Look among the nations, watch, and wonder marvelously; for I am working a work in your days, which you will not believe though it is told you. - Habakkuk 1:5
Aren't you from everlasting, Lord my God, my Holy One? We will not die. Lord, you have appointed him for judgment. You, Rock, have established him to punish. - Habakkuk 1:12
You who have purer eyes than to see evil, and who cannot look on perversity, why do you tolerate those who deal treacherously, and keep silent when the wicked swallows up the man who is more righteous than he, - Habakkuk 1:13
and make men like the fish of the sea, like the creeping things, that have no ruler over them? - Habakkuk 1:14
For the vision is yet for the appointed time, and it hurries toward the end, and won't prove false. Though it takes time, wait for it; because it will surely come. It won't delay. - Habakkuk 2:3
Behold, his soul is puffed up. It is not upright in him, but the righteous will live by his faith. - Habakkuk 2:4
Woe to him who gets an evil gain for his house, that he may set his nest on high, that he may be delivered from the hand of evil! - Habakkuk 2:9
You have devised shame to your house, by cutting off many peoples, and have sinned against your soul. - Habakkuk 2:10
For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea. - Habakkuk 2:14
But the Lord is in his holy temple. Let all the earth be silent before him!" - Habakkuk 2:20
A prayer of Habakkuk, the prophet, set to victorious music. - Habakkuk 3:1
 Lord, I have heard of your fame. I stand in awe of your deeds, Lord. Renew your work in the midst of the years. In the midst of the years make it known. In wrath, you remember mercy. - Habakkuk 3:2
God came from Teman, the Holy One from Mount Paran. Selah. His glory covered the heavens, and his praise filled the earth. - Habakkuk 3:3
His splendor is like the sunrise. Rays shine from his hand, where his power is hidden. - Habakkuk 3:4
Plague went before him, and pestilence followed his feet. - Habakkuk 3:5
He stood, and shook the earth. He looked, and made the nations tremble. The ancient mountains were crumbled. The age-old hills collapsed. His ways are eternal. - Habakkuk 3:6
I saw the tents of Cushan in affliction. The dwellings of the land of Midian trembled. - Habakkuk 3:7
Was the Lord displeased with the rivers? Was your anger against the rivers, or your wrath against the sea, that you rode on your horses, on your chariots of salvation? - Habakkuk 3:8
You uncovered your bow. You called for your sworn arrows. Selah. You split the earth with rivers. - Habakkuk 3:9
You went forth for the salvation of your people, for the salvation of your anointed. You crushed the head of the land of wickedness. You stripped them head to foot. Selah. - Habakkuk 3:13
yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will be joyful in the God of my salvation! - Habakkuk 3:18
The Lord, the Lord, is my strength. He makes my feet like deer's feet, and enables me to go in high places. For the music director, on my stringed instruments. - Habakkuk 3:19
In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, the Word of the Lord came by Haggai, the prophet, to Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, saying, - Haggai 1:1
"This is what the Lord of hosts says: These people say, 'The time hasn't yet come, the time for the Lord's house to be built.'" - Haggai 1:2
Then the Word of the Lord came by Haggai, the prophet, saying, - Haggai 1:3
"Is it a time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses, while this house lies waste? - Haggai 1:4
Now therefore this is what the Lord of hosts says: Consider your ways. - Haggai 1:5
You have sown much, and bring in little. You eat, but you do not have enough. You drink, but you aren't filled with drink. You clothe yourselves, but no one is warm, and he who earns wages earns wages to put them into a bag with holes in it." - Haggai 1:6
This is what the Lord of hosts says: "Consider your ways. - Haggai 1:7
Go up to the mountain, bring wood, and build the house. I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified," says the Lord. - Haggai 1:8
"You looked for much, and, behold, it came to little; and when you brought it home, I blew it away. Why?" says the Lord of hosts, "Because of my house that lies waste, while each of you is busy with his own house. - Haggai 1:9
Therefore for your sake the heavens withhold the dew, and the earth withholds its fruit. - Haggai 1:10
I called for a drought on the land, on the mountains, on the grain, on the new wine, on the oil, on that which the ground brings forth, on men, on livestock, and on all the labor of the hands." - Haggai 1:11
Then Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the Lord, their God, and the words of Haggai, the prophet, as the Lord, their God, had sent him; and the people feared the Lord. - Haggai 1:12
Then Haggai, the Lord's messenger, spoke the Lord's message to the people, saying, "I am with you," says the Lord. - Haggai 1:13
The Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people; and they came and worked on the house of the Lord of hosts, their God, - Haggai 1:14
in the twenty-fourth day of the month, in the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king. - Haggai 1:15
'Who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? How do you see it now? Isn't it in your eyes as nothing? - Haggai 2:3
Yet now be strong, Zerubbabel,' says the Lord. 'Be strong, Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest. Be strong, all you people of the land,' says the Lord, 'and work, for I am with you,' says the Lord of hosts. - Haggai 2:4
This is the word that I covenanted with you when you came out of Egypt, and my Spirit lived among you. 'Do not be afraid.' - Haggai 2:5
For this is what the Lord of hosts says: 'Yet once, it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the dry land; - Haggai 2:6
and I will shake all nations. The precious things of all nations will come, and I will fill this house with glory, says the Lord of hosts. - Haggai 2:7
The silver is mine, and the gold is mine,' says the Lord of hosts. - Haggai 2:8
'The latter glory of this house will be greater than the former,' says the Lord of hosts; 'and in this place will I give peace,' says the Lord of hosts." - Haggai 2:9
Then Haggai said, "If one who is unclean by reason of a dead body touch any of these, will it be unclean?" The priests answered, "It will be unclean." - Haggai 2:13
Then Haggai answered, "'So is this people, and so is this nation before me,' says the Lord; 'and so is every work of their hands. That which they offer there is unclean. - Haggai 2:14
I struck you with blight, mildew, and hail in all the work of your hands; yet you did not turn to me,' says the Lord. - Haggai 2:17
has at the end of these days spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the worlds. - Hebrews 1:2
His Son is the radiance of his glory, the very image of his substance, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had made, through himself , purification for sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high; - Hebrews 1:3
But of the Son he says, "Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your Kingdom. - Hebrews 1:8
But we see him who has been made a little lower than the angels, Jesus, because of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, that by the grace of God he should taste of death for everyone. - Hebrews 2:9
For the word of God is living, and active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing even to the dividing of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and is able to discern the thoughts and intentions of the heart. - Hebrews 4:12
Having then a great high priest, who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold tightly to our confession. - Hebrews 4:14
For we do not have a high priest who cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but one who has been in all points tempted like we are, yet without sin. - Hebrews 4:15
Let us therefore draw near with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and may find grace for help in time of need. - Hebrews 4:16
Therefore leaving the doctrine of the first principles of Christ, let us press on to perfection-not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works, of faith toward God, - Hebrews 6:1
Therefore he is also able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, seeing that he lives forever to make intercession for them. - Hebrews 7:25
so Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, without sin, to those who are eagerly waiting for him for salvation. - Hebrews 9:28
Let us consider how to provoke one another to love and good works, - Hebrews 10:24
not forsaking our own assembling together, as the custom of some is, but exhorting one another; and so much the more, as you see the Day approaching. - Hebrews 10:25
Now faith is assurance of things hoped for, proof of things not seen. - Hebrews 11:1
By faith, we understand that the universe has been framed by the word of God, so that what is seen has not been made out of things which are visible. - Hebrews 11:3
Without faith it is impossible to be well pleasing to him, for he who comes to God must believe that he exists, and that he is a rewarder of those who seek him. - Hebrews 11:6
Therefore let us also, seeing we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, lay aside every weight and the sin which so easily entangles us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us, - Hebrews 12:1
looking to Jesus, the author and perfecter of faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, disregarding its shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. - Hebrews 12:2
Follow after peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no man will see the Lord, - Hebrews 12:14
But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable multitudes of angels, - Hebrews 12:22
Let brotherly love continue. - Hebrews 13:1
Do not forget to show hospitality to strangers, for in doing so, some have entertained angels without knowing it. - Hebrews 13:2
Be free from the love of money, content with such things as you have, for he has said, "I will never leave you or forsake you." - Hebrews 13:5
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. - Hebrews 13:8
Through him, then, let us offer up a sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of lips which proclaim allegiance to his name. - Hebrews 13:15
But I will have mercy on the house of Judah, and will save them by the Lord their God, and will not save them by bow, sword, battle, horses, or horsemen." - Hosea 1:7
Yet the number of the children of Israel will be as the sand of the sea, which can't be measured nor numbered; and it will come to pass that, in the place where it was said to them, 'You are not my people,' they will be called 'sons of the living God.' - Hosea 1:10
I will betroth you to me forever. Yes, I will betroth you to me in righteousness, in justice, in loving kindness, and in compassion. - Hosea 2:19
I will sow her to me in the earth; and I will have mercy on her who had not obtained mercy; and I will tell those who were not my people, 'You are my people;' and they will say, 'My God!'" - Hosea 2:23
The Lord said to me, "Go again, love a woman loved by another, and an adulteress, even as the Lord loves the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods, and love cakes of raisins." - Hosea 3:1
Afterward the children of Israel shall return, and seek the Lord their God, and David their king, and shall come with trembling to the Lord and to his blessings in the last days. - Hosea 3:5
"Come, and let us return to the Lord; for he has torn us to pieces, and he will heal us; he has injured us, and he will bind up our wounds. - Hosea 6:1
After two days he will revive us. On the third day he will raise us up, and we will live before him. - Hosea 6:2
Let us acknowledge the Lord. Let us press on to know the Lord. As surely as the sun rises, The Lord will appear. He will come to us like the rain, like the spring rain that waters the earth." - Hosea 6:3
For I desire mercy, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God more than burnt offerings. - Hosea 6:6
For they have made ready their heart like an oven, while they lie in wait. Their baker sleeps all the night. In the morning it burns as a flaming fire. - Hosea 7:6
They cry to me, 'My God, we Israel acknowledge you!' - Hosea 8:2
Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap according to kindness. Break up your fallow ground; for it is time to seek the Lord, until he comes and rains righteousness on you. - Hosea 10:12
"When Israel was a child, then I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son. - Hosea 11:1
I drew them with cords of a man, with ties of love; and I was to them like those who lift up the yoke on their necks; and I bent down to him and I fed him. - Hosea 11:4
even the Lord, the God of Hosts; The Lord is his name of renown! - Hosea 12:5
Therefore turn to your God. Keep kindness and justice, and wait continually for your God. - Hosea 12:6
Therefore turn to your God. Keep kindness and justice, and wait continually for your God. - Hosea 12:6
By a prophet the Lord brought Israel up out of Egypt, and by a prophet he was preserved. - Hosea 12:13
"Yet I am the Lord your God [that establishes the heaven, and creates the earth, whose hands have framed the whole host of heaven. But I did not show them to you that you should go after them, but I brought you up] from the land of Egypt; and you shall acknowledge no god but me, and besides me there is no savior. - Hosea 13:4
I knew you in the wilderness, in the land of great drought. - Hosea 13:5
Take words with you, and return to the Lord. Tell him, "Forgive all our sins, and accept that which is good: so we offer our lips like bulls. - Hosea 14:2
"I will heal their waywardness. I will love them freely; for my anger is turned away from him. - Hosea 14:4
I will be like the dew to Israel. He will blossom like the lily, and send down his roots like Lebanon. - Hosea 14:5
Who is wise, that he may understand these things? Who is prudent, that he may know them? For the ways of the Lord are right, and the righteous walk in them; But the rebellious stumble in them. - Hosea 14:9
"Come now, and let us reason together," says the Lord: "Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. - Isaiah 1:18
It shall happen in the latter days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established on the top of the mountains, and shall be raised above the hills; and all nations shall flow to it. - Isaiah 2:2
Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin will conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel. - Isaiah 7:14
For to us a child is born. To us a son is given; and the government will be on his shoulders. His name will be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. - Isaiah 9:6
The wolf will live with the lamb, and the leopard will lie down with the young goat; The calf, the young lion, and the fattened calf together; and a little child will lead them. - Isaiah 11:6
How you have fallen from heaven, morning star, son of the dawn! How you are cut down to the ground, who laid the nations low! - Isaiah 14:12
You will keep whoever's mind is steadfast in perfect peace, because he trusts in you. - Isaiah 26:3
The grass withers, the flower fades; but the word of our God stands forever." - Isaiah 40:8
Haven't you known? Haven't you heard? The everlasting God, the Lord, The Creator of the ends of the earth, doesn't faint. He isn't weary. His understanding is unsearchable. - Isaiah 40:28
But those who wait for the Lord will renew their strength. They will mount up with wings like eagles. They will run, and not be weary. They will walk, and not faint. - Isaiah 40:31
Do not be afraid, for I am with you. Do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. Yes, I will help you. Yes, I will uphold you with the right hand of my righteousness. - Isaiah 41:10
"Behold, my servant, whom I uphold; my chosen, in whom my soul delights- I have put my Spirit on him. He will bring justice to the nations. - Isaiah 42:1
But now thus says the Lord who created you, Jacob, and he who formed you, Israel: "Do not be afraid, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by your name. You are mine. - Isaiah 43:1
This is what the Lord, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts, says: "I am the first, and I am the last; and besides me there is no God. - Isaiah 44:6
Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: I am the Lord your God, who teaches you to profit, who leads you by the way that you should go. - Isaiah 48:17
How beautiful on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace, who brings good news of good, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, "Your God reigns!" - Isaiah 52:7
Surely he has borne our sufferings, and carried our sorrows; yet we considered him plagued, struck by God, and afflicted. - Isaiah 53:4
But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought our peace was on him; and by his wounds we are healed. - Isaiah 53:5
All we like sheep have gone astray. Everyone has turned to his own way; and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. - Isaiah 53:6
"Come, everyone who thirsts, to the waters! Come, he who has no money, buy, and eat! Yes, come, buy wine and milk without money and without price. - Isaiah 55:1
"For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways," says the Lord. - Isaiah 55:8
"Isn't this the fast that I have chosen: to release the bonds of wickedness, to undo the bands of the yoke, and to let the oppressed go free, and that you break every yoke? - Isaiah 58:6
Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened, that it can't save; neither his ear heavy, that it can't hear: - Isaiah 59:1
The Spirit of the Lord God is on me; because the Lord has anointed me to preach good news to the humble. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and release to those who are bound; - Isaiah 61:1
"For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth; and the former things shall not be remembered, nor come into mind. - Isaiah 65:17
Count it all joy, my brothers, when you fall into various temptations, - James 1:2
But if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and without reproach; and it will be given to him. - James 1:5
For let that man not think that he will receive anything from the Lord. - James 1:7
Blessed is the man who endures temptation, for when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life, which he promised to those who love him. - James 1:12
This you know , my beloved brothers. But let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger; - James 1:19
But be doers of the word, and not only hearers, deluding your own selves. - James 1:22
But he who looks into the perfect Law of freedom, and continues, not being a hearer who forgets, but a doer of the work, this man will be blessed in what he does. - James 1:25
If anyone thinks himself to be religious while he does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his heart, this man's religion is worthless. - James 1:26
Pure religion and undefiled before our God and Father is this: to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained by the world. - James 1:27
My brothers, do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ of glory with partiality. - James 2:1
However, if you fulfill the royal law, according to the Scripture, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself," you do well. - James 2:8
What good is it, my brothers, if a man says he has faith, but has no works? Can faith save him? - James 2:14
You believe that God is one. You do well. The demons also believe, and shudder. - James 2:19
For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, even so faith apart from works is dead. - James 2:26
Let not many of you be teachers, my brothers, knowing that we will receive heavier judgment. - James 3:1
Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show by his good conduct that his deeds are done in gentleness of wisdom. - James 3:13
But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceful, gentle, reasonable, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, without hypocrisy. - James 3:17
You ask, and do not receive, because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it for your pleasures. - James 4:3
You adulteresses , do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whoever therefore wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. - James 4:4
Be subject therefore to God. But resist the devil, and he will flee from you. - James 4:7
Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners; and purify your hearts, you double-minded. - James 4:8
Be patient therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. Behold, the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient over it, until it receives the early and late rain. - James 5:7
Is any among you suffering? Let him pray. Is any cheerful? Let him sing praises. - James 5:13
Is any among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord, - James 5:14
Therefore confess your sins to one another, and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The insistent prayer of a righteous person is powerfully effective. - James 5:16
"Before I formed you in the belly, I knew you. Before you came forth out of the womb, I sanctified you. I have appointed you a prophet to the nations." - Jeremiah 1:5
Do not be afraid because of them; for I am with you to deliver you," says the Lord. - Jeremiah 1:8
Then the Lord put forth his hand, and touched my mouth; and the Lord said to me, "Behold, I have put my words in your mouth. - Jeremiah 1:9
They will fight against you; but they will not prevail against you; for I am with you," says the Lord, "to deliver you." - Jeremiah 1:19
"Go, and cry in the ears of Jerusalem, saying, 'Thus says the Lord, "I remember you, the devotion of your youth, the love of your weddings; how you went after me in the wilderness, in a land that was not sown. - Jeremiah 2:2
but this thing I commanded them, saying, 'Listen to my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people; and walk in all the way that I command you, that it may be well with you.' - Jeremiah 7:23
but let him who glories glory in this, that he has understanding, and knows me, that I am the Lord who exercises loving kindness, justice, and righteousness, in the earth: for in these things I delight," says the Lord. - Jeremiah 9:24
He has made the earth by his power, he has established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding has he stretched out the heavens: - Jeremiah 10:12
Your words were found, and I ate them; and your words were to me a joy and the rejoicing of my heart: for I am called by your name, Lord, God of Hosts. - Jeremiah 15:16
Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, and whose trust the Lord is. - Jeremiah 17:7
I, the Lord, search the mind, I try the heart, even to give every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his doings. - Jeremiah 17:10
Heal me, O Lord, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be saved: for you are my praise. - Jeremiah 17:14
"Behold, the days come," says the Lord, "that I will raise to David a righteous Branch, and he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. - Jeremiah 23:5
Can any hide himself in secret places so that I shall not see him?' says the Lord. 'Do I not fill heaven and earth?' says the Lord. - Jeremiah 23:24
I will give them a heart to know me, that I am the Lord: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God; for they shall return to me with their whole heart.' - Jeremiah 24:7
For I know the plans that I have for you,' says the Lord, 'plans for your welfare, and not for calamity, to give you hope and a future. - Jeremiah 29:11
You shall seek me, and find me, when you shall search for me with all your heart. - Jeremiah 29:13
For I will restore health to you, and I will heal you of your wounds," says the Lord; "because they have called you an outcast, saying, 'It is Zion, whom no man seeks after.'" - Jeremiah 30:17
The Lord appeared of old to me, saying, 'Yes, I have loved you with an everlasting love: therefore with loving kindness have I drawn you. - Jeremiah 31:3
They shall come and sing in the height of Zion, and shall flow to the goodness of the Lord, to the grain, and to the new wine, and to the oil, and to the young of the flock and of the herd: and their soul shall be as a watered garden; and they shall not sorrow any more at all. - Jeremiah 31:12
"Then shall the virgin rejoice in the dance, and the young men and the old together; for I will turn their mourning into joy, and will comfort them, and make them rejoice from their sorrow. - Jeremiah 31:13
Behold, the days come," says the Lord, "that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah: - Jeremiah 31:31
"But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days," says the Lord: "I will put my law in their inward parts, and in their heart will I write it; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people: - Jeremiah 31:33
'Ah, Lord God! Behold, you have made the heavens and the earth by your great power and by your outstretched arm; there is nothing too hard for you, - Jeremiah 32:17
"Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh: is there anything too difficult for me? - Jeremiah 32:27
'Call to me, and I will answer you, and will show you great things, and difficult, which you do not know.' - Jeremiah 33:3
'Behold, the days come,' says the Lord, 'that I will perform that good word which I have spoken concerning the house of Israel and concerning the house of Judah. - Jeremiah 33:14
Then Job arose, and tore his robe, and shaved his head, and fell down on the ground, and worshiped. - Job 1:20
He said, "Naked I came out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return there. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord." - Job 1:21
In all this, Job did not sin, nor charge God with wrongdoing. - Job 1:22
so that he sets up on high those who are low, those who mourn are exalted to safety. - Job 5:11
"Behold, happy is the man whom God corrects. Therefore do not despise the chastening of the Almighty. - Job 5:17
"To him who is ready to faint, kindness should be shown from his friend; even to him who forsakes the fear of the Almighty. - Job 6:14
He will still fill your mouth with laughter, your lips with shouting. - Job 8:21
He alone stretches out the heavens, and treads on the waves of the sea. - Job 9:8
He makes the Bear, Orion, and the Pleiades, and the chambers of the south. - Job 9:9
in whose hand is the life of every living thing, and the breath of all mankind? - Job 12:10
"With God is wisdom and might. He has counsel and understanding. - Job 12:13
He uncovers deep things out of darkness, and brings out to light the shadow of death. - Job 12:22
Even now, behold, my witness is in heaven. He who vouches for me is on high. - Job 16:19
But as for me, I know that my Redeemer lives. In the end, he will stand upon the earth. - Job 19:25
"Acquaint yourself with him, now, and be at peace. Thereby good shall come to you. - Job 22:21
But he knows the way that I take. When he has tried me, I shall come forth like gold. - Job 23:10
I haven't gone back from the commandment of his lips. I have treasured up the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. - Job 23:12
"Dominion and fear are with him. He makes peace in his high places. - Job 25:2
He stretches out the north over empty space, and hangs the earth on nothing. - Job 26:7
He has described a boundary on the surface of the waters, and to the confines of light and darkness. - Job 26:10
Behold, these are but the outskirts of his ways. How small a whisper do we hear of him! But the thunder of his power who can understand?" - Job 26:14
But there is a spirit in man, and the breath of the Almighty gives them understanding. - Job 32:8
The Spirit of God has made me, and the breath of the Almighty gives me life. - Job 33:4
Behold, God is great, and we do not know him. The number of his years is unsearchable. - Job 36:26
God thunders marvelously with his voice. He does great things, which we can't comprehend. - Job 37:5
"I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be restrained. - Job 42:2
The Lord turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his friends. The Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. - Job 42:10
So the Lord blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning. He had fourteen thousand sheep, six thousand camels, one thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand female donkeys. - Job 42:12
Sanctify a fast. Call a solemn assembly. Gather the elders, and all the inhabitants of the land, to the house of the Lord, your God, and cry to the Lord. - Joel 1:14
Blow the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my holy mountain! Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of the Lord comes, for it is close at hand: - Joel 2:1
Tear your heart, and not your garments, and turn to the Lord, your God; for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, and relents from sending calamity. - Joel 2:13
Then the Lord was jealous for his land, And had pity on his people. - Joel 2:18
Land, do not be afraid. Be glad and rejoice, for the Lord has done great things. - Joel 2:21
"Be glad then, you children of Zion, and rejoice in the Lord, your God; for he gives you the former rain in just measure, and he causes the rain to come down for you, the former rain and the latter rain, as before. - Joel 2:23
You will have plenty to eat, and be satisfied, and will praise the name of the Lord, your God, who has dealt wondrously with you; and my people will never again be disappointed. - Joel 2:26
You will know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am the Lord, your God, and there is no one else; and my people will never again be disappointed. - Joel 2:27
"It will happen afterward, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh; and your sons and your daughters will prophesy. Your old men will dream dreams. Your young men will see visions. - Joel 2:28
And also on the servants and on the handmaids in those days, I will pour out my Spirit. - Joel 2:29
It will happen that whoever will call on the name of the Lord shall be saved; for in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there will be those who escape, as the Lord has said, and among the remnant, those whom the Lord calls. - Joel 2:32
The Lord will roar from Zion, and thunder from Jerusalem; and the heavens and the earth will shake; but the Lord will be a refuge to his people, and a stronghold to the children of Israel. - Joel 3:16
"So you will know that I am the Lord, your God, dwelling in Zion, my holy mountain. Then Jerusalem will be holy, and no strangers will pass through her any more. - Joel 3:17
It will happen in that day, that the mountains will drop down sweet wine, the hills will flow with milk, all the brooks of Judah will flow with waters, and a fountain will come forth from the house of the Lord, and will water the valley of Shittim. - Joel 3:18
But Judah will be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem from generation to generation. - Joel 3:20
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. - John 1:1
All things were made through him. Without him was not anything made that has been made. - John 1:3
The true light that enlightens everyone was coming into the world. - John 1:9
But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become God's children, to those who believe in his name: - John 1:12
The Word became flesh, and lived among us. We saw his glory, such glory as of the one and only Son of the Father, full of grace and truth. - John 1:14
The next day, he saw Jesus coming to him, and said, "Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world! - John 1:29
He made a whip of cords, and threw all out of the temple, both the sheep and the oxen; and he poured out the changers' money, and overthrew their tables. - John 2:15
Jesus answered him, "Truly, truly, I tell you, unless one is born anew, he cannot see the Kingdom of God." - John 3:3
Jesus answered, "Truly, truly, I tell you, unless one is born of water and spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God! - John 3:5
For God so loved the world, that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. - John 3:16
He who believes in him is not judged. He who does not believe has been judged already, because he has not believed in the name of the one and only Son of God. - John 3:18
God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth." - John 4:24
"Truly, truly, I tell you, he who hears my word, and believes him who sent me, has eternal life, and does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life. - John 5:24
Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I tell you, before Abraham came into existence, I AM. " - John 8:58
The thief only comes to steal, kill, and destroy. I came that they may have life, and may have it abundantly. - John 10:10
Jesus said to her, "I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will still live, even if he dies. - John 11:25
A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also must love one another. - John 13:34
"Do not let your heart be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. - John 14:1
Jesus said to him, "I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father, except through me. - John 14:6
If you love me, you will keep my commandments. - John 14:15
I will pray to the Father, and he will give you another Counselor, that he may be with you forever,- - John 14:16
But the Counselor, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things, and will remind you of all that I said to you. - John 14:26
I am the vine. You are the branches. He who remains in me, and I in him, the same bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. - John 15:5
However when he, the Spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you into all truth, for he will not speak from himself; but whatever he hears, he will speak. He will declare to you things that are coming. - John 16:13
This is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and him whom you sent, Jesus Christ. - John 17:3
Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah the son of Amittai, saying, - Jonah 1:1
"Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and proclaim against it, for their wickedness has come up before me." - Jonah 1:2
But Jonah rose up to flee to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. He went down to Joppa, and found a ship going to Tarshish; so he paid its fare, and went down into it, to go with them to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. - Jonah 1:3
He said to them, "I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who has made the sea and the dry land." - Jonah 1:9
He said to them, "Take me up, and throw me into the sea. Then the sea will be calm for you; for I know that because of me this great storm is on you." - Jonah 1:12
Nevertheless the men rowed hard to get them back to the land; but they could not, for the sea grew more and more stormy against them. - Jonah 1:13
Therefore they cried to the Lord, and said, "We beg you, Lord, we beg you, let us not perish for this man's life, and do not lay on us innocent blood; for you, Lord, have done as it pleased you." - Jonah 1:14
So they took up Jonah, and threw him into the sea; and the sea ceased its raging. - Jonah 1:15
Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly; and they offered a sacrifice to the Lord, and made vows. - Jonah 1:16
The Lord prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. - Jonah 1:17
Then Jonah prayed to the Lord, his God, out of the fish's belly. - Jonah 2:1
He said, "I called because of my affliction to the Lord. He answered me. Out of the belly of Sheol I cried. You heard my voice. - Jonah 2:2
I went down to the bottoms of the mountains. The earth barred me in forever: yet have you brought up my life from the pit, Lord my God. - Jonah 2:6
"When my soul fainted within me, I remembered the Lord. My prayer came in to you, into your holy temple. - Jonah 2:7
"Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and proclaim to it the message that I give you." - Jonah 3:2
So Jonah arose, and went to Nineveh, according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, three days' journey across. - Jonah 3:3
but let them be covered with sackcloth, both man and animal, and let them cry mightily to God. Yes, let them turn everyone from his evil way, and from the violence that is in his hands. - Jonah 3:8
Who knows whether God will not turn and relent, and turn away from his fierce anger, so that we might not perish?" - Jonah 3:9
God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way. God relented of the disaster which he said he would do to them, and he did not do it. - Jonah 3:10
He prayed to the Lord, and said, "Please, Lord, wasn't this what I said when I was still in my own country? Therefore I hurried to flee to Tarshish, for I knew that you are a gracious God, and merciful, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, and you relent of doing harm. - Jonah 4:2
Therefore now, Lord, take, I beg you, my life from me; for it is better for me to die than to live." - Jonah 4:3
The Lord said, "Is it right for you to be angry?" - Jonah 4:4
The Lord God prepared a vine, and made it to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shade over his head, to deliver him from his discomfort. So Jonah was exceedingly glad because of the vine. - Jonah 4:6
But God prepared a worm at dawn the next day, and it chewed on the vine, so that it withered. - Jonah 4:7
It happened, when the sun arose, that God prepared a sultry east wind; and the sun beat on Jonah's head, so that he fainted, and requested for himself that he might die, and said, "It is better for me to die than to live." - Jonah 4:8
God said to Jonah, "Is it right for you to be angry about the vine?" He said, "I am right to be angry, even to death." - Jonah 4:9
The Lord said, "You have been concerned for the vine, for which you have not labored, neither made it grow; which came up in a night, and perished in a night. - Jonah 4:10
No man will be able to stand before you all the days of your life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not fail you nor forsake you. - Joshua 1:5
Only be strong and very courageous, to observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my servant commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right hand or to the left, that you may have good success wherever you go. - Joshua 1:7
This scroll of the Law shall not depart out of your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, that you may observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then you shall make your way prosperous, and then you shall have good success. - Joshua 1:8
Haven't I commanded you? Be strong and of good courage. Do not be afraid, neither be dismayed: for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. - Joshua 1:9
Joshua said to the people, "Sanctify yourselves; for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you." - Joshua 3:5
On that day, the Lord magnified Joshua in the sight of all Israel; and they feared him, as they feared Moses, all the days of his life. - Joshua 4:14
The captain of the Lord's host said to Joshua, "Take your shoes off of your feet; for the place on which you stand is holy." Joshua did so. - Joshua 5:15
So the people shouted, and the priests blew the trumpets. It happened, when the people heard the sound of the trumpet, that the people shouted with a great shout, and the wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they took the city. - Joshua 6:20
But to the tribe of Levi Moses gave no inheritance. The Lord, the God of Israel, is their inheritance, as he spoke to them. - Joshua 13:33
So the Lord gave to Israel all the land which he swore to give to their fathers. They possessed it, and lived in it. - Joshua 21:43
The Lord gave them rest all around, according to all that he swore to their fathers. Not a man of all their enemies stood before them. The Lord delivered all their enemies into their hand. - Joshua 21:44
Nothing failed of any good thing which the Lord had spoken to the house of Israel. All came to pass. - Joshua 21:45
Only take diligent heed to do the commandment and the law which Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you, to love the Lord your God, to walk in all his ways, to keep his commandments, to hold fast to him, and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul." - Joshua 22:5
Far be it from us that we should rebel against the Lord, and turn away this day from following the Lord, to build an altar for burnt offering, for meal offering, or for sacrifice, besides the altar of the Lord our God that is before his tabernacle!" - Joshua 22:29
The children of Reuben and the children of Gad named the altar "A Witness Between Us that the Lord is God." - Joshua 22:34
Therefore be very courageous to keep and to do all that is written in the scroll of the Law of Moses, that you not turn aside from it to the right hand or to the left; - Joshua 23:6
but hold fast to the Lord your God, as you have done to this day. - Joshua 23:8
One man of you shall chase a thousand; for it is the Lord your God who fights for you, as he spoke to you. - Joshua 23:10
Take good heed therefore to yourselves, that you love the Lord your God. - Joshua 23:11
Behold, today I am going the way of all the earth. You know in all your hearts and in all your souls that not one thing has failed of all the good things which the Lord your God spoke concerning you. All have happened to you. Not one thing has failed of it. - Joshua 23:14
I gave you a land whereon you had not labored, and cities which you did not build, and you live in them. You eat of vineyards and olive groves which you did not plant.' - Joshua 24:13
If it seems evil to you to serve the Lord, choose this day whom you will serve; whether the gods which your fathers served that were beyond the River, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell: but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." - Joshua 24:15
for it is the Lord our God who brought us and our fathers up out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage, and who did those great signs in our sight, and preserved us in all the way in which we went, and among all the peoples through the midst of whom we passed. - Joshua 24:17
"Now therefore put away the foreign gods which are among you, and incline your heart to the Lord, the God of Israel." - Joshua 24:23
The people said to Joshua, "We will serve the Lord our God, and we will listen to his voice." - Joshua 24:24
Jude , a servant of Jesus Christ, and brother of Jacob, to those who are called, loved by God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ: - Jude 1:1
Mercy to you and peace and love be multiplied. - Jude 1:2
Beloved, while I was very eager to write to you about our common salvation, I was constrained to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints. - Jude 1:3
For there are certain men who crept in secretly, even those who were long ago written about for this condemnation: ungodly men, turning the grace of our God into lasciviousness, and denying our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ. - Jude 1:4
Now I desire to remind you, though you already know this, that the Lord, having saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe. - Jude 1:5
Angels who did not keep their first domain, but deserted their own dwelling place, he has kept in everlasting bonds under darkness for the judgment of the great day. - Jude 1:6
Even as Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities around them, having, in the same way as these, given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh, are set forth as an example, suffering the punishment of eternal fire. - Jude 1:7
Yet in like manner these also in their dreaming defile the flesh, despise authority, and slander celestial beings. - Jude 1:8
But Michael, the archangel, when contending with the devil and arguing about the body of Moses, dared not bring against him an abusive condemnation, but said, "May the Lord rebuke you!" - Jude 1:9
But these speak evil of whatever things they do not know. What they understand naturally, like the creatures without reason, they are destroyed in these things. - Jude 1:10
Woe to them! For they went in the way of Cain, and ran riotously in the error of Balaam for hire, and perished in Korah's rebellion. - Jude 1:11
These are hidden rocky reefs in your love feasts when they feast with you, shepherds who without fear feed themselves; clouds without water, carried along by winds; autumn leaves without fruit, twice dead, plucked up by the roots; - Jude 1:12
wild waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame; wandering stars, for whom the blackness of darkness has been reserved forever. - Jude 1:13
About these also Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied, saying, "Behold, the Lord came with ten thousands of his holy ones, - Jude 1:14
to execute judgment on all, and to convict all the ungodly of all their works of ungodliness which they have done in an ungodly way, and of all the hard things which ungodly sinners have spoken against him." - Jude 1:15
These are murmurers and complainers, walking after their lusts (and their mouth speaks proud things), showing respect of persons to gain advantage. - Jude 1:16
But you, beloved, remember the words which have been spoken before by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. - Jude 1:17
They said to you that "In the last time there will be mockers, walking after their own ungodly lusts." - Jude 1:18
These are they who cause divisions, and are sensual, not having the Spirit. - Jude 1:19
But you, beloved, keep building up yourselves on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit. - Jude 1:20
Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to eternal life. - Jude 1:21
On some have compassion, who are in doubt , - Jude 1:22
and some save, snatching them out of the fire, and on some have mercy with fear ; hating even the clothing stained by the flesh. - Jude 1:23
Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory in great joy, - Jude 1:24
to the only God our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord , be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and forever. Amen. - Jude 1:25
Now when Joshua had sent the people away, the children of Israel went every man to his inheritance to possess the land. - Judges 2:6
The people served the Lord all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great work of the Lord that he had worked for Israel. - Judges 2:7
When the Lord raised them up judges, then the Lord was with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge: for it grieved the Lord because of their groaning by reason of those who oppressed them and troubled them. - Judges 2:18
When the children of Israel cried to the Lord, the Lord raised up a savior to the children of Israel, who saved them, even Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother. - Judges 3:9
"Hear, you kings! Give ear, you princes! I, even I, will sing to the Lord. I will sing praise to the Lord, the God of Israel. - Judges 5:3
The mountains quaked at the presence of the Lord, even Sinai, at the presence of the Lord, the God of Israel. - Judges 5:5
My heart is toward the leaders of Israel, who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless the Lord! - Judges 5:9
"Speak, you who ride on white donkeys, you who sit on rich carpets, and you who walk by the way. - Judges 5:10
Far from the noise of archers, in the places of drawing water, there they will rehearse the righteous acts of the Lord, the righteous acts of his rule in Israel. "Then the people of the Lord went down to the gates. - Judges 5:11
"So let all your enemies perish, Lord, but let those who love him be as the sun when it rises forth in its strength." And the land had rest forty years. - Judges 5:31
that the Lord sent a prophet to the children of Israel, and he said to them, "Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, 'I brought you up from Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage; - Judges 6:8
The angel of the Lord appeared to him, and said to him, "The Lord is with you, you mighty man of valor!" - Judges 6:12
Gideon said to him, "Oh, my lord, if the Lord is with us, why then has all this happened to us? Where are all his wondrous works which our fathers told us of, saying, 'Didn't the Lord bring us up from Egypt?' But now the Lord has cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian." - Judges 6:13
The Lord looked at him, and said, "Go in this your might, and save Israel from the hand of Midian. Haven't I sent you?" - Judges 6:14
He said to him, "O Lord, how shall I save Israel? Behold, my family is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house." - Judges 6:15
The Lord said to him, "Surely I will be with you, and you shall strike the Midianites as one man." - Judges 6:16
Then Gideon built an altar there to the Lord, and called it "The Lord is Peace." To this day it is still in Ophrah of the Abiezrites. - Judges 6:24
His friend answered, "This is nothing less than the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of Israel. Into his hand God has delivered Midian, and all the army." - Judges 7:14
Gideon said to them, "I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you: the Lord shall rule over you." - Judges 8:23
The children of Israel said to the Lord, "We have sinned. Do to us whatever seems good to you; only deliver us, please, this day." - Judges 10:15
For behold, you shall conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come on his head; for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb. And he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines." - Judges 13:5
For it happened, when the flame went up toward the sky from off the altar, that the angel of the Lord ascended in the flame of the altar. And Manoah and his wife looked on, and they fell on their faces to the ground. - Judges 13:20
The woman bore a son, and named him Samson. And the child grew, and the Lord blessed him. - Judges 13:24
The priest said to them, "Go in peace. The Lord will watch over you on your journey." - Judges 18:6
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came to Bethel, and wept, and sat there before the Lord, and fasted that day until evening; and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord. - Judges 20:26
My transgressions are bound into a yoke; by his hand they are fastened together, they are set upon my neck; he has made my strength to fail. The Lord has delivered me into their hands, against whom I am not able to stand. - Lamentations 1:14
The Lord has rejected all my mighty men in my midst; he has called a solemn assembly against me to crush my young men. The Lord has trodden as in a winepress the virgin daughter of Judah. - Lamentations 1:15
The Lord is righteous, for I have rebelled against his commandment. Please listen all you people, and see my suffering. My virgins and my young men have gone into captivity. - Lamentations 1:18
ALEPH How the Lord covered the daughter of Zion with a cloud in his anger! He has cast down from heaven to the earth the splendor of Israel, and hasn't remembered his footstool in the day of his anger. - Lamentations 2:1
He has done violence to his temple, as if it were a garden; he has destroyed his place of assembly. The Lord has caused solemn assembly and Sabbath to be forgotten in Zion. He has spurned in his fierce anger the king and the priest. - Lamentations 2:6
The elders of the daughter of Zion sit on the ground in silence. They have cast up dust on their heads; they have clothed themselves with sackcloth. The virgins of Jerusalem hang down their heads to the ground. - Lamentations 2:10
What shall I testify of you? What shall I liken to you, daughter of Jerusalem? What shall I compare to you, that I may comfort you, virgin daughter of Zion? For your ruin is great like the sea. Who can heal you? - Lamentations 2:13
Their heart cried to the Lord. O wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears run down like a river day and night. Give yourself no respite; do not let your tears cease. - Lamentations 2:18
Arise, cry out in the night, at the beginning of the watches. Pour out your heart like water before the face of the Lord. Lift up your hands toward him for the life of your young children, that faint for hunger at the head of every street. - Lamentations 2:19
ALEPH I am the man that has seen affliction by the rod of his wrath. - Lamentations 3:1
You have removed my soul far away from peace; I have forgotten what prosperity is. - Lamentations 3:17
The Lord's faithful love does not cease; his compassion does not fail. - Lamentations 3:22
They are new every morning; great is your faithfulness. - Lamentations 3:23
"The Lord is my portion," says my soul, "therefore will I hope in him." - Lamentations 3:24
The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul that seeks him. - Lamentations 3:25
It is good that a man should hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the Lord. - Lamentations 3:26
For though he may cause grief, yet he will have compassion according to the abundance of his loving kindness. - Lamentations 3:32
Who can speak a thing and have it come to pass, unless the Lord has commanded it? - Lamentations 3:37
Doesn't both calamity and good come out of the mouth of the Most High? - Lamentations 3:38
Let us examine and search our ways, and return to the Lord. - Lamentations 3:40
You drew near in the day that I called on you; you said, "Do not be afraid." - Lamentations 3:57
Lord, you have taken up the case for my soul; you have redeemed my life. - Lamentations 3:58
 Lord, you have seen the wrong done to me; judge my case. - Lamentations 3:59
You, Lord, abide forever; your throne is from generation to generation. - Lamentations 5:19
Restore us to you, Lord, and we shall be restored; renew our days as in former times, - Lamentations 5:21
The priest shall make atonement for him before the Lord, and he will be forgiven concerning whatever he does to become guilty." - Leviticus 6:7
Fire shall be kept burning on the altar continually; it shall not go out. - Leviticus 6:13
Moses took the anointing oil, and anointed the tabernacle and all that was in it, and sanctified them. - Leviticus 8:10
Moses said, "This is the thing which the Lord commanded that you should do: and the glory of the Lord shall appear to you." - Leviticus 9:6
Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed them; and he came down from offering the sin offering, and the burnt offering, and the peace offerings. - Leviticus 9:22
There came forth fire from before the Lord, and consumed the burnt offering and the fat upon the altar: and when all the people saw it, they shouted, and fell on their faces. - Leviticus 9:24
for on this day shall atonement be made for you, to cleanse you; from all your sins you shall be clean before the Lord. - Leviticus 16:30
"Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, 'I am the Lord your God. - Leviticus 18:2
You shall therefore keep my statutes and my ordinances; which if a man does, he shall live in them: I am the Lord. - Leviticus 18:5
"Speak to all the congregation of the children of Israel, and tell them, 'You shall be holy; for I the Lord your God am holy. - Leviticus 19:2
"'You shall not steal; neither shall you deal falsely, nor lie to one another. - Leviticus 19:11
"'You shall not swear by my name falsely, and profane the name of your God. I am the Lord. - Leviticus 19:12
"'You shall do no injustice in judgment: you shall not be partial to the poor, nor show favoritism to the great; but you shall judge your neighbor in righteousness. - Leviticus 19:15
"'You shall not hate your brother in your heart. You shall surely rebuke your neighbor, and not bear sin because of him. - Leviticus 19:17
"'You shall keep my Sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary; I am the Lord. - Leviticus 19:30
"'You shall rise up before the gray head, and honor the face of an old man, and you shall fear your God. I am the Lord. - Leviticus 19:32
The stranger who lives as a foreigner with you shall be to you as the native-born among you, and you shall love him as yourself; for you lived as foreigners in the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. - Leviticus 19:34
You shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. - Leviticus 19:36
But I have said to you, "You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess it, a land flowing with milk and honey." I am the Lord your God, who has separated you from the peoples. - Leviticus 20:24
You shall be holy to me: for I, the Lord, am holy, and have set you apart from the peoples, that you should be mine. - Leviticus 20:26
You shall not profane my holy name, but I will be made holy among the children of Israel. I am the Lord who makes you holy, - Leviticus 22:32
It shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for you, and you shall deny yourselves. In the ninth day of the month at evening, from evening to evening, you shall keep your Sabbath." - Leviticus 23:32
"Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, 'When you come into the land which I give you, then the land shall keep a Sabbath to the Lord. - Leviticus 25:2
"'The land shall not be sold in perpetuity, for the land is mine; for you are strangers and live as foreigners with me. - Leviticus 25:23
then I will give you your rains in their season, and the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. - Leviticus 26:4
I will set my tent among you: and my soul won't abhor you. - Leviticus 26:11
I will walk among you, and will be your God, and you will be my people. - Leviticus 26:12
"'All the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the trees, is the Lord's. It is holy to the Lord. - Leviticus 27:30
You will have joy and gladness; and many will rejoice at his birth. - Luke 1:14
He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father, David, - Luke 1:32
The angel answered her, "The Holy Spirit will come on you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore also the holy one who is born will be called the Son of God. - Luke 1:35
For everything spoken by God is possible." - Luke 1:37
And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man. - Luke 2:52
"The Spirit of the Lord is on me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim release to the captives, recovering of sight to the blind, to deliver those who are crushed, - Luke 4:18
He lifted up his eyes to his disciples, and said, "Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the Kingdom of God. - Luke 6:20
"But I tell you who hear: love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, - Luke 6:27
"Treat others as you would have them treat you. - Luke 6:31
"Give, and it will be given to you: good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, will be given to you. For with the same measure you measure it will be measured back to you." - Luke 6:38
"Why do you call me, 'Lord, Lord,' and do not do the things which I say? - Luke 6:46
He called the twelve together, and gave them power and authority over all demons, and to cure diseases. - Luke 9:1
He said to all, "If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross daily , and follow me. - Luke 9:23
He answered, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind; and your neighbor as yourself." - Luke 10:27
If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him?" - Luke 11:13
He said to them, "Beware! Keep yourselves from all covetousness, for a man's life does not consist of the abundance of the things which he possesses." - Luke 12:15
Do not be afraid, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the Kingdom. - Luke 12:32
For the Son of Man came to seek and to save that which was lost." - Luke 19:10
He took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and gave to them, saying, "This is my body which is given for you. Do this in memory of me." - Luke 22:19
Jesus said, "Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing." Dividing his garments among them, they cast lots. - Luke 23:34
And he said to him, "Assuredly I tell you, today you will be with me in Paradise." - Luke 23:43
See my hands and my feet, that it is truly me. Touch me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see that I have." - Luke 24:39
He said to them, "This is what I told you, while I was still with you, that all things which are written in the Law of Moses, the Prophets, and the Psalms, concerning me must be fulfilled." - Luke 24:44
and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name to all the nations, beginning at Jerusalem. - Luke 24:47
Behold, I send forth the promise of my Father on you. But wait in the city until you are clothed with power from on high." - Luke 24:49
Your eyes will see, and you will say, "The Lord is great-even beyond the border of Israel!" - Malachi 1:5
When you offer the blind for sacrifice, isn't that evil? And when you offer the lame and sick, isn't that evil? Present it now to your governor! Will he be pleased with you? Or will he accept your person?" says the Lord of hosts. - Malachi 1:8
"Oh that there were one among you who would shut the doors, that you might not kindle fire on my altar in vain! I have no pleasure in you," says the Lord of hosts, "neither will I accept an offering at your hand. - Malachi 1:10
For from the rising of the sun even to the going down of the same, my name is great among the nations, and in every place incense will be offered to my name, and a pure offering: for my name is great among the nations," says the Lord of hosts. - Malachi 1:11
"But the deceiver is cursed, who has in his flock a male, and vows, and sacrifices to the Lord a blemished thing; for I am a great King," says the Lord of hosts, "and my name is awesome among the nations." - Malachi 1:14
"My covenant was with him of life and peace; and I gave them to him that he might be reverent toward me; and he was reverent toward me, and stood in awe of my name. - Malachi 2:5
The law of truth was in his mouth, and unrighteousness was not found in his lips. He walked with me in peace and uprightness, and turned many away from iniquity. - Malachi 2:6
Do we not all have one father? Hasn't one God created us? Why do we deal treacherously every man against his brother, profaning the covenant of our fathers? - Malachi 2:10
For I hate divorce," says the Lord, the God of Israel, "and him who covers his garment with violence!" says the Lord of hosts. "Therefore take heed to your spirit, that you do not deal treacherously. - Malachi 2:16
"Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me; and the Lord, whom you seek, will suddenly come to his temple; and the messenger of the covenant, whom you desire, behold, he comes!" says the Lord of hosts. - Malachi 3:1
Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasant to the Lord, as in the days of old, and as in ancient years. - Malachi 3:4
"For I, the Lord, do not change; therefore you, sons of Jacob, are not consumed. - Malachi 3:6
Will a man rob God? Yet you rob me! But you say, 'How have we robbed you?' In tithes and offerings. - Malachi 3:8
You are cursed with the curse; for you rob me, even this whole nation. - Malachi 3:9
Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house, and test me now in this," says the Lord of hosts, "if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough for. - Malachi 3:10
I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast its fruit before its time in the field," says the Lord of hosts. - Malachi 3:11
"All nations shall call you blessed, for you will be a delightful land," says the Lord of hosts. - Malachi 3:12
You have said, 'It is vain to serve God;' and 'What profit is it that we have followed his instructions, and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts? - Malachi 3:14
Now we call the proud happy; yes, those who work wickedness are built up; yes, they tempt God, and escape.' - Malachi 3:15
Then those who feared the Lord spoke one with another; and the Lord listened, and heard, and a book of memory was written before him, for those who feared the Lord, and who honored his name. - Malachi 3:16
They shall be mine," says the Lord of hosts, "my own possession in the day that I make, and I will spare them, as a man spares his own son who serves him. - Malachi 3:17
Then you shall return and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him who serves God and him who doesn't serve him. - Malachi 3:18
"For, behold, the day comes, it burns as a furnace; and all the proud, and all who work wickedness, will be stubble; and the day that comes will burn them up," says the Lord of hosts, "that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. - Malachi 4:1
But to you who fear my name shall the sun of righteousness arise with healing in its wings. You will go out, and leap like calves of the stall. - Malachi 4:2
Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and terrible day of the Lord comes. - Malachi 4:5
Immediately coming up from the water, he saw the heavens parting, and the Spirit descending on him like a dove. - Mark 1:10
and saying, "The time is fulfilled, and the Kingdom of God is near! Repent, and believe in the Good News." - Mark 1:15
He said to them, "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. - Mark 2:27
For from within, out of the hearts of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, sexual sins, murders, thefts, - Mark 7:21
He began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests, and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. - Mark 8:31
He called the multitude to himself with his disciples, and said to them, "If anyone wants to come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. - Mark 8:34
For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world, and forfeit his soul? - Mark 8:36
He said to them, "Truly I tell you, there are some standing here who will in no way taste death until they see the Kingdom of God come with power." - Mark 9:1
After six days Jesus took with him Peter, Jacob, and John, and brought them up onto a high mountain privately by themselves, and he was changed into another form in front of them. - Mark 9:2
Jesus said to him, "'If you can? ' All things are possible to him who believes." - Mark 9:23
If your hand causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter into life maimed, rather than having your two hands to go into hell , into the unquenchable fire, [ - Mark 9:43
For the Son of Man also came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many." - Mark 10:45
Jesus answered them, "Have faith in God. - Mark 11:22
Truly I tell you, whoever may tell this mountain, 'Be taken up and cast into the sea,' and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says is happening; it will be done for him. - Mark 11:23
Therefore I tell you, all things whatever you pray and ask for, believe that you have received them, and you shall have them. - Mark 11:24
Whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone; so that your Father, who is in heaven, may also forgive you your transgressions." - Mark 11:25
you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength.' , - Mark 12:30
But of that day or the hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. - Mark 13:32
As they were eating, he took bread, and when he had blessed, he broke it, and gave to them, and said, "Take ; this is my body." - Mark 14:22
At the ninth hour Jesus called out with a loud voice, saying, "Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?" which is, being interpreted, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" - Mark 15:34
He said to them, "Go into all the world, and proclaim the Good News to the whole creation. - Mark 16:15
He who believes and is baptized will be saved; but he who disbelieves will be condemned. - Mark 16:16
These signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will speak with new languages; - Mark 16:17
they will pick up serpents with their hands ; and if they drink any deadly thing, it will not harm them; they will lay hands on the sick, and they will recover." - Mark 16:18
So then the Lord Jesus , after he had spoken to them, was received up into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of God. - Mark 16:19
Now the birth of Jesus Christ was like this; for after his mother, Mary, was engaged to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. - Matthew 1:18
And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus , for it is he who shall save his people from their sins." - Matthew 1:21
Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. - Matthew 4:1
"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven. - Matthew 5:3
Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. - Matthew 5:7
"You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt has lost its flavor, with what will it be salted? It is then good for nothing, but to be cast out and trodden under the feet of men. - Matthew 5:13
You are the light of the world. A city located on a hill cannot be hidden. - Matthew 5:14
Even so, let your light shine before men; that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven. - Matthew 5:16
"Do not think that I came to destroy the Law or the Prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. - Matthew 5:17
Pray like this: 'Our Father in heaven, may your name be kept holy. - Matthew 6:9
"Do not lay up treasures for yourselves on the earth, where moth and rust consume, and where thieves break through and steal; - Matthew 6:19
Therefore, I tell you, do not be anxious for your life: what you will eat, or what you will drink; nor yet for your body, what you will wear. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? - Matthew 6:25
But seek first his Kingdom, and his righteousness; and all these things will be given to you as well. - Matthew 6:33
"Do not judge, so that you won't be judged. - Matthew 7:1
"Ask, and it will be given you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened for you. - Matthew 7:7
For everyone who asks receives. He who seeks finds. To him who knocks it will be opened. - Matthew 7:8
"Enter in by the narrow gate; for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and many are those who enter in by it. - Matthew 7:13
Not everyone who says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' will enter into the Kingdom of Heaven; but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. - Matthew 7:21
"Come to me, all you who labor and are heavily burdened, and I will give you rest. - Matthew 11:28
I also tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. - Matthew 16:18
"If your brother sins against you, go, show him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained back your brother. - Matthew 18:15
He said to him, "'You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.' - Matthew 22:37
"But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory. - Matthew 25:31
Jesus came to them and spoke to them, saying, "All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. - Matthew 28:18
Therefore go, and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, - Matthew 28:19
For, behold, the Lord comes forth out of his place, and will come down and tread on the high places of the earth. - Micah 1:3
Woe to those who devise iniquity and work evil on their beds! When the morning is light, they practice it, because it is in the power of their hand. - Micah 2:1
They covet fields, and seize them; and houses, and take them away: and they oppress a man and his house, even a man and his heritage. - Micah 2:2
Shall it be said, O house of Jacob: "Is the Spirit of the Lord angry? Are these his doings? Do not my words do good to him who walks blamelessly?" - Micah 2:7
He who breaks open the way goes up before them. They break through the gate, and go out. And their king passes on before them, with the Lord at their head. - Micah 2:13
But in the latter days, it will happen that the mountain of the Lord's temple will be established on the top of the mountains, and it will be exalted above the hills; and peoples will stream to it. - Micah 4:1
Many nations will go and say, "Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths." For out of Zion will go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem; - Micah 4:2
But they will sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree; and no one will make them afraid: For the mouth of the Lord of hosts has spoken. - Micah 4:4
Indeed all the nations may walk in the name of their gods; but we will walk in the name of the Lord our God forever and ever. - Micah 4:5
and I will make that which was lame a remnant, and that which was cast far off a strong nation: and the Lord will reign over them on Mount Zion from then on, even forever." - Micah 4:7
Arise and thresh, daughter of Zion; for I will make your horn iron, and I will make your hoofs brass; and you will beat in pieces many peoples: and I will devote their gain to the Lord, and their substance to the Lord of the whole earth. - Micah 4:13
But you, Bethlehem Ephrathah, being small among the clans of Judah, out of you one will come forth to me that is to be ruler in Israel; whose goings forth are from of old, from everlasting. - Micah 5:2
He shall stand, and shall shepherd in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God: and they will live, for then he will be great to the ends of the earth. - Micah 5:4
I will execute vengeance in anger, and wrath on the nations that did not listen." - Micah 5:15
Hear, you mountains, the Lord's controversy, and you enduring foundations of the earth; for the Lord has a controversy with his people, and he will contend with Israel. - Micah 6:2
For I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed you out of the house of bondage. I sent before you Moses, Aaron, and Miriam. - Micah 6:4
Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams? With tens of thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my disobedience? The fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? - Micah 6:7
He has shown you, O man, what is good. What does the Lord require of you, but to act justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God? - Micah 6:8
Their hands are on that which is evil to do it diligently. The ruler and judge ask for a bribe; and the powerful man dictates the evil desire of his soul. Thus they conspire together. - Micah 7:3
But as for me, I will look to the Lord. I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me. - Micah 7:7
Do not rejoice against me, my enemy. When I fall, I will arise. When I sit in darkness, the Lord will be a light to me. - Micah 7:8
"As in the days of your coming forth out of the land of Egypt, I will show them marvelous things." - Micah 7:15
Who is a God like you, who pardons iniquity, and passes over the disobedience of the remnant of his heritage? He doesn't retain his anger forever, because he delights in loving kindness. - Micah 7:18
He will again have compassion on us. He will tread our iniquities under foot; and you will cast all their sins into the depths of the sea. - Micah 7:19
You will give truth to Jacob, and mercy to Abraham, as you have sworn to our fathers from the days of old. - Micah 7:20
An oracle about Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite. - Nahum 1:1
The Lord is a jealous God and avenges. The Lord avenges and is full of wrath. The Lord takes vengeance on his adversaries, and he maintains wrath against his enemies. - Nahum 1:2
The Lord is slow to anger, and great in power, and will by no means leave the guilty unpunished. The Lord has his way in the whirlwind and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet. - Nahum 1:3
He rebukes the sea, and makes it dry, and dries up all the rivers. Bashan languishes, and Carmel; and the flower of Lebanon languishes. - Nahum 1:4
The mountains quake before him, and the hills melt away. The earth trembles at his presence, yes, the world, and all who dwell in it. - Nahum 1:5
Who can stand before his indignation? Who can endure the fierceness of his anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken apart by him. - Nahum 1:6
The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble; and he knows those who take refuge in him. - Nahum 1:7
But with an overflowing flood, he will make a full end of her place, and will pursue his enemies into darkness. - Nahum 1:8
What do you plot against the Lord? He will make a full end. Affliction won't rise up the second time. - Nahum 1:9
For entangled like thorns, and drunken as with their drink, they are consumed utterly like dry stubble. - Nahum 1:10
There is one gone forth out of you, who devises evil against the Lord, who counsels wickedness. - Nahum 1:11
Thus says the Lord: "Though they be in full strength, and likewise many, even so they will be cut down, and he shall pass away. Though I have afflicted you, I will afflict you no more. - Nahum 1:12
Now will I break his yoke from off you, and will burst your bonds apart." - Nahum 1:13
The Lord has commanded concerning you: "No more descendants will bear your name. Out of the house of your gods, will I cut off the engraved image and the molten image. I will make your grave, for you are vile." - Nahum 1:14
Behold, on the mountains the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace! Keep your feasts, Judah! Perform your vows, for the wicked one will no more pass through you. He is utterly cut off. - Nahum 1:15
He who dashes in pieces has come up against you. Keep the fortress! Watch the way! Strengthen your waist! Fortify your power mightily! - Nahum 2:1
For the Lord restores the excellency of Jacob, as the excellency of Israel; for the destroyers have destroyed them, and ruined their vine branches. - Nahum 2:2
The shield of his mighty men is made red. The valiant men are in scarlet. The chariots flash with steel in the day of his preparation, and the pine spears are brandished. - Nahum 2:3
The chariots rage in the streets. They rush back and forth in the broad ways. Their appearance is like torches. They run like the lightnings. - Nahum 2:4
He summons his picked troops. They stumble on their way. They dash to its wall, and the protective shield is put in place. - Nahum 2:5
The gates of the rivers are opened, and the palace is dissolved. - Nahum 2:6
It is decreed: she is uncovered, she is carried away; and her handmaids moan as with the voice of doves, beating on their breasts. - Nahum 2:7
But Nineveh has been from of old like a pool of water, yet they flee away. "Stop! Stop!" they cry, but no one looks back. - Nahum 2:8
Take the spoil of silver. Take the spoil of gold, for there is no end of the store, the glory of all goodly furniture. - Nahum 2:9
She is empty, void, and waste. The heart melts, the knees knock together, their bodies and faces have grown pale. - Nahum 2:10
Let your ear now be attentive, and your eyes open, that you may listen to the prayer of your servant, which I pray before you at this time, day and night, for the children of Israel your servants while I confess the sins of the children of Israel, which we have sinned against you. Yes, I and my father's house have sinned. - Nehemiah 1:6
but if you return to me, and keep my commandments and do them, though your outcasts were in the uttermost part of the heavens, yet will I gather them from there, and will bring them to the place that I have chosen, to cause my name to dwell there.' - Nehemiah 1:9
"Now these are your servants and your people, whom you have redeemed by your great power, and by your strong hand. - Nehemiah 1:10
I said to the king, "If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in your sight, that you would send me to Judah, to the city of my fathers' tombs, that I may build it." - Nehemiah 2:5
So we built the wall; and all the wall was joined together to half its height: for the people had a mind to work. - Nehemiah 4:6
I looked, and rose up, and said to the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the rest of the people, "Do not be afraid of them! Remember the Lord, who is great and awesome, and fight for your brothers, your sons, and your daughters, your wives, and your houses." - Nehemiah 4:14
It happened, when our enemies heard that it was known to us, and God had brought their counsel to nothing, that we returned all of us to the wall, everyone to his work. - Nehemiah 4:15
Remember to me, my God, for good, all that I have done for this people. - Nehemiah 5:19
For they all would have made us afraid, saying, "Their hands will be weakened from the work, that it not be done. But now, strengthen my hands." - Nehemiah 6:9
It happened, when all our enemies heard of it, that all the nations that were about us were afraid, and were much cast down in their own eyes; for they perceived that this work was worked of our God. - Nehemiah 6:16
He read therein before the broad place that was before the water gate from early morning until midday, in the presence of the men and the women, and of those who could understand; and the ears of all the people were attentive to the book of the law. - Nehemiah 8:3
Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people; (for he was above all the people;) and when he opened it, all the people stood up: - Nehemiah 8:5
and Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. All the people answered, "Amen, Amen," with the lifting up of their hands. They bowed their heads, and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. - Nehemiah 8:6
Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest the scribe, and the Levites who taught the people, said to all the people, "This day is holy to the Lord your God. Do not mourn, nor weep." For all the people wept, when they heard the words of the law. - Nehemiah 8:9
Then he said to them, "Go your way. Eat the fat, drink the sweet, and send portions to him for whom nothing is prepared; for this day is holy to our Lord. Do not be grieved; for the joy of the Lord is your strength." - Nehemiah 8:10
Also day by day, from the first day to the last day, he read in the book of the law of God. They kept the feast seven days; and on the eighth day was a solemn assembly, according to the ordinance. - Nehemiah 8:18
They stood up in their place, and read in the book of the law of the Lord their God a fourth part of the day; and a fourth part they confessed, and worshiped the Lord their God. - Nehemiah 9:3
Then the Levites, Jeshua, and Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah, said, "Stand up and bless the Lord your God from everlasting to everlasting! Blessed be your glorious name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise! - Nehemiah 9:5
You are the Lord, even you alone. You have made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their army, the earth and all things that are on it, the seas and all that is in them, and you preserve them all. The army of heaven worships you. - Nehemiah 9:6
Moreover, in a pillar of cloud you led them by day; and in a pillar of fire by night, to give them light in the way in which they should go. - Nehemiah 9:12
"You came down also on Mount Sinai, and spoke with them from heaven, and gave them right ordinances and true laws, good statutes and commandments, - Nehemiah 9:13
and gave them bread from the sky for their hunger, and brought forth water for them out of the rock for their thirst, and commanded them that they should go in to possess the land which you had sworn to give them. - Nehemiah 9:15
yet you in your manifold mercies did not forsake them in the wilderness: the pillar of cloud did not depart from over them by day, to lead them in the way; neither the pillar of fire by night, to show them light, and the way in which they should go. - Nehemiah 9:19
You gave also your good Spirit to instruct them, and did not withhold your manna from their mouth, and gave them water for their thirst. - Nehemiah 9:20
"Yes, forty years you sustained them in the wilderness. They lacked nothing. Their clothes did not grow old, and their feet did not swell. - Nehemiah 9:21
They took fortified cities, and a rich land, and possessed houses full of all good things, cisterns dug out, vineyards, and olive groves, and fruit trees in abundance. So they ate, were filled, became fat, and delighted themselves in your great goodness. - Nehemiah 9:25
"Nevertheless in your manifold mercies you did not make a full end of them, nor forsake them; for you are a gracious and merciful God. - Nehemiah 9:31
At the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the Levites out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep the dedication with gladness, both with giving thanks, and with singing, with cymbals, stringed instruments, and with harps. - Nehemiah 12:27
They offered great sacrifices that day, and rejoiced; for God had made them rejoice with great joy; and the women also and the children rejoiced: so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off. - Nehemiah 12:43
Remember me, my God, concerning this, and do not wipe out my good deeds that I have done for the house of my God, and for its observances. - Nehemiah 13:14
'The Lord bless you, and keep you. - Numbers 6:24
The Lord make his face to shine on you, and be gracious to you. - Numbers 6:25
The Lord lift up his face toward you, and give you peace.' - Numbers 6:26
It happened on the day that Moses had finished setting up the tabernacle, and had anointed it and sanctified it, with all its furniture, and the altar with all its vessels, and had anointed and sanctified them; - Numbers 7:1
When the dew fell on the camp in the night, the manna fell on it. - Numbers 11:9
He said, "Hear now my words. If there is a prophet among you, I the Lord will make myself known to him in a vision. I will speak with him in a dream. - Numbers 12:6
but my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him, and has followed me fully, him will I bring into the land into which he went; and his seed shall possess it. - Numbers 14:24
I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the Lord your God." - Numbers 15:41
It happened on the next day, that Moses went into the tent of the testimony; and behold, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi was budded, and put forth buds, and produced blossoms, and bore ripe almonds. - Numbers 17:8
Out of all your gifts you shall offer every wave offering of the Lord, of all its best, even the holy part of it out of it.' - Numbers 18:29
"Take the rod, and assemble the congregation, you, and Aaron your brother, and speak to the rock before their eyes, that it give forth its water; and you shall bring forth to them water out of the rock; so you shall give the congregation and their livestock drink." - Numbers 20:8
Moses lifted up his hand, and struck the rock with his rod twice: and water came forth abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their livestock. - Numbers 20:11
Moses made a serpent of brass, and set it on the standard: and it happened, that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he looked to the serpent of brass, he lived. - Numbers 21:9
The Lord opened the mouth of the donkey, and she said to Balaam, "What have I done to you, that you have struck me these three times?" - Numbers 22:28
Then the Lord opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of the Lord standing in the way, with his sword drawn in his hand; and he bowed his head, and fell on his face. - Numbers 22:31
How shall I curse whom God has not cursed? How shall I defy whom the Lord has not defied? - Numbers 23:8
God is not a man, that he should lie, nor the son of man, that he should repent. Has he said, and will he not do it? Or has he spoken, and will he not make it good? - Numbers 23:19
But Balaam answered Balak, "Did I not tell you, saying, 'All that the Lord speaks, that I must do?'" - Numbers 23:26
How goodly are your tents, Jacob, and your tents, Israel! - Numbers 24:5
Therefore say, 'Behold, I give to him my covenant of peace: - Numbers 25:12
and it shall be to him, and to his seed after him, the covenant of an everlasting priesthood; because he was jealous for his God, and made atonement for the children of Israel.'" - Numbers 25:13
"'You shall offer these to the Lord in your set feasts, besides your vows, and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your meal offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.'" - Numbers 29:39
everything that may withstand the fire, you shall make to go through the fire, and it shall be clean; nevertheless it shall be purified with the water for impurity: and all that doesn't withstand the fire you shall make to go through the water. - Numbers 31:23
You shall take possession of the land, and dwell therein; for I have given given the land to you to possess it. - Numbers 33:53
You shall not defile the land which you inhabit, in the midst of which I dwell: for I, the Lord, dwell in the midst of the children of Israel.'" - Numbers 35:34
The vision of Obadiah. This is what the Lord God says about Edom. We have heard news from the Lord, and an ambassador is sent among the nations, saying, "Arise, and let's rise up against her in battle. - Obadiah 1:1
Behold, I have made you small among the nations. You are greatly despised. - Obadiah 1:2
The pride of your heart has deceived you, you who dwell in the clefts of the rock, whose habitation is high, who says in his heart, 'Who will bring me down to the ground?' - Obadiah 1:3
Though you mount on high as the eagle, and though your nest is set among the stars, I will bring you down from there," says the Lord. - Obadiah 1:4
"If thieves came to you, if robbers by night-oh, what disaster awaits you-wouldn't they only steal until they had enough? If grape pickers came to you, wouldn't they leave some gleaning grapes? - Obadiah 1:5
How Esau will be ransacked! How his hidden treasures are sought out! - Obadiah 1:6
All the men of your alliance have brought you on your way, even to the border. The men who were at peace with you have deceived you, and prevailed against you. Friends who eat your bread lay a snare under you. There is no understanding in him." - Obadiah 1:7
"Won't I in that day," says the Lord, "destroy the wise men out of Edom, and understanding out of the mountain of Esau? - Obadiah 1:8
Your mighty men, Teman, will be dismayed, to the end that everyone may be cut off from the mountain of Esau by slaughter. - Obadiah 1:9
For the violence done to your brother Jacob, shame will cover you, and you will be cut off forever. - Obadiah 1:10
In the day that you stood on the other side, in the day that strangers carried away his substance, and foreigners entered into his gates, and cast lots for Jerusalem, even you were like one of them. - Obadiah 1:11
But do not look down on your brother in the day of his disaster, and do not rejoice over the children of Judah in the day of their destruction. Do not speak proudly in the day of distress. - Obadiah 1:12
Do not enter into the gate of my people in the day of their calamity. Do not look down on their affliction in the day of their calamity, neither seize their wealth on the day of their calamity. - Obadiah 1:13
Do not stand in the crossroads to cut off those of his who escape. Do not deliver up those of his who remain in the day of distress. - Obadiah 1:14
For the day of the Lord is near all the nations! As you have done, it will be done to you. Your deeds will return upon your own head. - Obadiah 1:15
For as you have drunk on my holy mountain, so will all the nations drink continually. Yes, they will drink, swallow down, and will be as though they had not been. - Obadiah 1:16
But in Mount Zion, there will be those who escape, and it will be holy. The house of Jacob will possess their possessions. - Obadiah 1:17
The house of Jacob will be a fire, the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau for stubble. They will burn among them, and devour them. There will not be any remaining to the house of Esau." Indeed, the Lord has spoken. - Obadiah 1:18
Those of the Negev will possess the mountain of Esau, and those of the lowland, the Philistines. They will possess the field of Ephraim, and the field of Samaria. Benjamin will possess Gilead. - Obadiah 1:19
The captives of this army of the children of Israel, who are among the Canaanites, will possess even to Zarephath; and the captives of Jerusalem, who are in Sepharad, will possess the cities of the Negev. - Obadiah 1:20
Saviors will go up on Mount Zion to judge the mountains of Esau, and the kingdom will be the Lord's. - Obadiah 1:21
Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon, our beloved fellow worker, - Philemon 1:1
and to Apphia our sister , to Archippus, our fellow soldier, and to the church in your house: - Philemon 1:2
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. - Philemon 1:3
I thank my God always, making mention of you in my prayers, - Philemon 1:4
hearing of your love, and of the faith which you have toward the Lord Jesus, and toward all the saints; - Philemon 1:5
that the fellowship of your faith may become effective, in the knowledge of every good thing which is in us in Christ. - Philemon 1:6
For I have much joy and comfort in your love, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you, brother. - Philemon 1:7
Therefore, though I have all boldness in Christ to command you that which is appropriate, - Philemon 1:8
Therefore, though I have all boldness in Christ to command you that which is appropriate, - Philemon 1:8
yet for love's sake I rather beg, being such a one as Paul, the aged, but also a prisoner of Jesus Christ. - Philemon 1:9
who once was useless to you, but now is useful to you and to me. - Philemon 1:11
I am sending back to you , him who is my very heart, - Philemon 1:12
whom I desired to keep with me, that on your behalf he might serve me in my chains for the Good News. - Philemon 1:13
But I was willing to do nothing without your consent, that your goodness would not be as of necessity, but of free will. - Philemon 1:14
For perhaps he was therefore separated from you for a while, that you would have him forever, - Philemon 1:15
no longer as a slave, but more than a slave, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much rather to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord. - Philemon 1:16
If then you count me a partner, receive him as you would receive me. - Philemon 1:17
But if he has wronged you at all, or owes you anything, put that to my account. - Philemon 1:18
I, Paul, write this with my own hand: I will repay it (not to mention to you that you owe to me even your own self besides). - Philemon 1:19
Yes, brother, let me have joy from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ. - Philemon 1:20
Having confidence in your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even beyond what I say. - Philemon 1:21
Also, prepare a guest room for me, for I hope that through your prayers I will be restored to you. - Philemon 1:22
Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, greets you, - Philemon 1:23
as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers. - Philemon 1:24
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. - Philemon 1:25
I thank my God whenever I remember you, - Philippians 1:3
being confident of this very thing, that he who began a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. - Philippians 1:6
This I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all discernment; - Philippians 1:9
so that you may approve the things that are excellent; that you may be sincere and without offense to the day of Christ; - Philippians 1:10
For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. - Philippians 1:21
doing nothing through rivalry or through conceit, but in humility, each counting others better than himself; - Philippians 2:3
each of you not just looking to his own things, but each of you also to the things of others. - Philippians 2:4
Have this in your mind, which was also in Christ Jesus, - Philippians 2:5
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven, those on earth, and those under the earth, - Philippians 2:10
that you may become blameless and harmless, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you are seen as lights in the world, - Philippians 2:15
For we are the circumcision, who worship God in the Spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh; - Philippians 3:3
More than that, I count all things to be loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and count them nothing but refuse, that I may gain Christ - Philippians 3:8
I press on toward the goal for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. - Philippians 3:14
For our citizenship is in heaven, from where we also wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ; - Philippians 3:20
who will change our lowly bodies into the likeness of his glorious body, according to the working by which he is able even to subject all things to himself. - Philippians 3:21
Therefore, my brothers, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand firm in the Lord, my beloved. - Philippians 4:1
Rejoice in the Lord always! Again I will say, Rejoice! - Philippians 4:4
Let your gentleness be known to all men. The Lord is near. - Philippians 4:5
In nothing be anxious, but in everything, by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. - Philippians 4:6
And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus. - Philippians 4:7
Finally, brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are honorable, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report; if there is any virtue, and if there is any praise, think about these things. - Philippians 4:8
Not that I speak in respect to lack, for I have learned in whatever state I am, to be content in it. - Philippians 4:11
I can do all things through him who strengthens me. - Philippians 4:13
My God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. - Philippians 4:19
Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever! Amen. - Philippians 4:20
Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. - Proverbs 3:5
In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your paths straight. - Proverbs 3:6
Honor the Lord with your substance, with the first fruits of all your increase: - Proverbs 3:9
for whom the Lord loves, he reproves; even as a father reproves the son in whom he delights. - Proverbs 3:12
Do not forsake her, and she will preserve you. Love her, and she will keep you. - Proverbs 4:6
But the path of the righteous is like the dawning light, that shines more and more until the perfect day. - Proverbs 4:18
Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it is the wellspring of life. - Proverbs 4:23
For wisdom is better than rubies. All the things that may be desired can't be compared to it. - Proverbs 8:11
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. The knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. - Proverbs 9:10
For by me your days will be multiplied. The years of your life will be increased. - Proverbs 9:11
Wicked people earn deceitful wages, but one who sows righteousness reaps a sure reward. - Proverbs 11:18
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth. The work of a man's hands shall be rewarded to him. - Proverbs 12:14
A fool shows his annoyance the same day, but one who overlooks an insult is prudent. - Proverbs 12:16
Better is little, with the fear of the Lord, than great treasure with trouble. - Proverbs 15:16
Better is a dinner of herbs, where love is, than a fattened calf with hatred. - Proverbs 15:17
Commit your deeds to the Lord, and your plans shall succeed. - Proverbs 16:3
A man's heart plans his course, but the Lord directs his steps. - Proverbs 16:9
It is better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor, than to divide the plunder with the proud. - Proverbs 16:19
He who heeds the Word finds prosperity. Whoever trusts in the Lord is blessed. - Proverbs 16:20
A cheerful heart makes good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones. - Proverbs 17:22
A man of many companions may be ruined, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. - Proverbs 18:24
A good name is more desirable than great riches, and loving favor is better than silver and gold. - Proverbs 22:1
The father of the righteous has great joy. Whoever fathers a wise child delights in him. - Proverbs 23:24
He who conceals his sins doesn't prosper, but whoever confesses and renounces them finds mercy. - Proverbs 28:13
"Every word of God is flawless. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. - Proverbs 30:5
Open your mouth for the mute, in the cause of all who are left desolate. - Proverbs 31:8
Who can find a worthy woman? For her price is far above rubies. - Proverbs 31:10
The words of the Lord are flawless words, as silver refined in a clay furnace, purified seven times. - Psalms 12:6
The Lord's Law is perfect, restoring the soul. The Lord's testimony is sure, making wise the simple. - Psalms 19:7
The Lord is my shepherd: I shall lack nothing. - Psalms 23:1
Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. - Psalms 23:4
The earth is the Lord's, with its fullness; the world, and those who dwell therein. - Psalms 24:1
The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? - Psalms 27:1
One thing I have asked of the Lord, that I will seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to see the Lord's beauty, and to inquire in his temple. - Psalms 27:4
Wait for the Lord. Be strong, and let your heart take courage. Yes, wait for the Lord. - Psalms 27:14
ALEPH I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise will always be in my mouth. - Psalms 34:1
Oh taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. - Psalms 34:8
Also delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. - Psalms 37:4
As the deer pants for the water brooks, so my soul pants after you, God. - Psalms 42:1
God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. - Psalms 46:1
"Be still, and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth." - Psalms 46:10
Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me. - Psalms 51:10
He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High will rest in the shadow of the Almighty. - Psalms 91:1
For he will put his angels in charge of you, to guard you in all your ways. - Psalms 91:11
Shout for joy to the Lord, all you lands! - Psalms 100:1
Praise the Lord, my soul! All that is within me, praise his holy name! - Psalms 103:1
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. All those who do his work have a good understanding. His praise endures forever! - Psalms 111:10
I have hidden your word in my heart, that I might not sin against you. - Psalms 119:11
Your word is a lamp to my feet, and a light for my path. - Psalms 119:105
Unless the Lord builds the house, they labor in vain who build it. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman guards it in vain. - Psalms 127:1
See how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to live together in unity! - Psalms 133:1
For you formed my inmost being. You knit me together in my mother's womb. - Psalms 139:13
I will give thanks to you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Your works are wonderful. My soul knows that very well. - Psalms 139:14
Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and keep the things that are written in it, for the time is near. - Revelation 1:3
Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, including those who pierced him. All the tribes of the earth will mourn over him. Even so, Amen. - Revelation 1:7
"I am the Alpha and the Omega, " says the Lord God, "who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty." - Revelation 1:8
Do not be afraid of the things which you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested; and you will have oppression for ten days. Be faithful to death, and I will give you the crown of life. - Revelation 2:10
Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, then I will come in to him, and will dine with him, and he with me. - Revelation 3:20
"Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive the glory, the honor, and the power, for you created all things, and because of your desire they existed, and were created!" - Revelation 4:11
They sang a new song, saying, "You are worthy to take the scroll, and to open its seals: for you were killed, and redeemed us for God with your blood, out of every tribe, language, people, and nation, - Revelation 5:9
After these things I looked, and behold, a great multitude, which no man could number, out of every nation and of all tribes, peoples, and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, dressed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands. - Revelation 7:9
The seventh angel sounded, and great voices in heaven followed, saying, "The kingdom of the world has become the Kingdom of our Lord, and of his Christ. He will reign forever and ever!" - Revelation 11:15
There was war in the sky. Michael and his angels made war on the serpent. The serpent and his angels made war. - Revelation 12:7
The great serpent was thrown down, the old serpent, he who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world. He was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him. - Revelation 12:9
I saw another angel flying in mid heaven, having an eternal Good News to proclaim to those who dwell on the earth, and to every nation, tribe, language, and people. - Revelation 14:6
I saw the heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and he who sat on it is called Faithful and True. In righteousness he judges and makes war. - Revelation 19:11
I saw thrones, and they sat on them, and judgment was given to them. I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus, and for the word of God, and such as did not worship the beast nor his image, and did not receive the mark on their forehead and on their hand. They lived, and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. - Revelation 20:4
The devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur, where the beast and the false prophet are also. They will be tormented day and night forever and ever. - Revelation 20:10
I saw a great white throne, and him who sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away. There was found no place for them. - Revelation 20:11
If anyone was not found written in the book of life, he was cast into the lake of fire. - Revelation 20:15
I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth have passed away, and the sea is no more. - Revelation 21:1
I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, made ready like a bride adorned for her husband. - Revelation 21:2
I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, "Behold, God's dwelling is with people, and he will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them. - Revelation 21:3
He will wipe away from them every tear from their eyes. Death will be no more; neither will there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain, any more. The first things have passed away." - Revelation 21:4
But for the cowardly, unbelieving, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their part is in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death." - Revelation 21:8
I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God, the Almighty, and the Lamb, are its temple. - Revelation 21:22
"Behold, I come quickly. My reward is with me, to repay to each man according to his work. - Revelation 22:12
The Spirit and the bride say, "Come!" He who hears, let him say, "Come!" He who is thirsty, let him come. He who desires, let him take the water of life freely. - Revelation 22:17
among whom you are also called to belong to Jesus Christ; - Romans 1:6
For I am not ashamed of the Good News , for it is the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes; for the Jew first, and also for the Greek. - Romans 1:16
For the invisible things of him since the creation of the world are clearly seen, being perceived through the things that are made, even his everlasting power and divine nature; that they may be without excuse. - Romans 1:20
As it is written, "There is no one righteous; no, not one. - Romans 3:10
for all have sinned, and fall short of the glory of God; - Romans 3:23
Being therefore justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ; - Romans 5:1
For while we were yet weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. - Romans 5:6
But God commends his own love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. - Romans 5:8
We were buried therefore with him through baptism to death, that just like Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we also might walk in newness of life. - Romans 6:4
For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. - Romans 6:23
There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. - Romans 8:1
But you are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if it is so that the Spirit of God dwells in you. But if any man does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not his. - Romans 8:9
For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are children of God. - Romans 8:14
The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are children of God; - Romans 8:16
For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which will be revealed toward us. - Romans 8:18
In the same way, the Spirit also helps our weaknesses, for we do not know how to pray as we ought. But the Spirit himself makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. - Romans 8:26
We know that all things work together for good for those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. - Romans 8:28
For whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. - Romans 8:29
What then shall we say about these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? - Romans 8:31
that if you will confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord , and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. - Romans 10:9
Therefore I urge you, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service. - Romans 12:1
And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what is the good, well-pleasing, and perfect will of God. - Romans 12:2
For I say, through the grace that was given me, to every man who is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but to think reasonably, as God has apportioned to each person a measure of faith. - Romans 12:3
Let every soul be in subjection to the higher authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those who exist are ordained by God. - Romans 13:1
For whatever things were written before were written for our learning, that through patience and through encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope. - Romans 15:4
Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, "Go, return each of you to her mother's house: the Lord deal kindly with you, as you have dealt with the dead, and with me. - Ruth 1:8
They lifted up their voice, and wept again: and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth joined with her. - Ruth 1:14
She said, "Behold, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people, and to her god. Follow your sister-in-law. - Ruth 1:15
Ruth said, "Do not urge me to leave you, and to return from following after you, for where you go, I will go; and where you stay, I will stay; your people shall be my people, and your God my God; - Ruth 1:16
When she saw that she was steadfastly minded to go with her, she left off speaking to her. - Ruth 1:18
I went out full, and the Lord has brought me home again empty. Why do you call me Naomi, since the Lord has testified against me, and the Almighty has afflicted me?" - Ruth 1:21
So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter-in-law, with her, who returned out of the country of Moab: and they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest. - Ruth 1:22
Behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and said to the reapers, "The Lord be with you." They answered him, "The Lord bless you." - Ruth 2:4
Then she fell on her face, and bowed herself to the ground, and said to him, "Why have I found favor in your sight, that you should take knowledge of me, since I am a foreigner?" - Ruth 2:10
Boaz answered her, "It has fully been shown to me, all that you have done to your mother-in-law since the death of your husband; and how you have left your father and your mother, and the land of your birth, and have come to a people that you didn't know before. - Ruth 2:11
May the Lord repay your work, and a full reward be given you from the Lord, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge." - Ruth 2:12
Then she said, "Let me find favor in your sight, my lord, because you have comforted me, and because you have spoken kindly to your handmaid, though I am not as one of your handmaidens." - Ruth 2:13
Her mother-in-law said to her, "Where have you gleaned today? And where have you worked? Blessed be he who noticed you." She showed her mother-in-law with whom she had worked, and said, "The man's name with whom I worked today is Boaz." - Ruth 2:19
Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, "Blessed be he of the Lord, who has not left off his kindness to the living and to the dead." Naomi said to her, "The man is a close relative to us, one of our near kinsmen." - Ruth 2:20
She said to her, "All that you say I will do." - Ruth 3:5
He said, "Blessed are you by the Lord, my daughter. You have shown more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning, inasmuch as you didn't follow young men, whether poor or rich. - Ruth 3:10
Now, my daughter, do not be afraid; I will do to you all that you say; for all the city of my people does know that you are a worthy woman. - Ruth 3:11
Boaz said to the elders, and to all the people, "You are witnesses this day, that I have bought all that was Elimelech's, and all that was Chilion's and Mahlon's, from the hand of Naomi. - Ruth 4:9
Moreover Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of Mahlon, have I purchased to be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead on his inheritance, that the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brothers, and from the gate of his place. You are witnesses this day." - Ruth 4:10
All the people who were in the gate, and the elders, said, "We are witnesses. May the Lord make the woman who has come into your house like Rachel and like Leah, which two built the house of Israel; and treat you worthily in Ephrathah, and be famous in Bethlehem. - Ruth 4:11
Let your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, of the seed which the Lord shall give you of this young woman." - Ruth 4:12
The women said to Naomi, "Blessed be the Lord, who has not left you this day without a redeemer; and let his name be famous in Israel. - Ruth 4:14
He shall be to you a restorer of life, and sustain you in your old age, for your daughter-in-law, who loves you, who is better to you than seven sons, has borne him." - Ruth 4:15
Naomi took the child, and laid it in her bosom, and looked after him. - Ruth 4:16
The women, her neighbors, gave him a name, saying, "There is a son born to Naomi." And they named him Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David. - Ruth 4:17
I am dark, but lovely, you daughters of Jerusalem, like Kedar's tents, like Solomon's curtains. - Song of Solomon 1:5
Behold, you are beautiful, my love. Behold, you are beautiful. Your eyes are doves. Beloved - Song of Solomon 1:15
I am a rose of Sharon, a lily of the valleys. Lover - Song of Solomon 2:1
As the apple tree among the trees of the wood, so is my beloved among the sons. I sat down under his shadow with great delight, his fruit was sweet to my taste. - Song of Solomon 2:3
Strengthen me with raisins, refresh me with apples; For I am faint with love. - Song of Solomon 2:5
I adjure you, daughters of Jerusalem, by the roes, or by the hinds of the field, that you not stir up, nor awaken love, until it so desires. - Song of Solomon 2:7
My beloved is like a roe or a young hart. Behold, he stands behind our wall! He looks in at the windows. He glances through the lattice. - Song of Solomon 2:9
The flowers appear on the earth. The time of the singing has come, and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land. - Song of Solomon 2:12
My dove in the clefts of the rock, In the hiding places of the mountainside, Let me see your face. Let me hear your voice; for your voice is sweet, and your face is lovely. - Song of Solomon 2:14
My beloved is mine, and I am his. He browses among the lilies. - Song of Solomon 2:16
Your lips are like scarlet thread. Your mouth is lovely. Your temples are like a piece of a pomegranate behind your veil. - Song of Solomon 4:3
You are all beautiful, my love. There is no spot in you. - Song of Solomon 4:7
Your lips, my bride, drip like the honeycomb. Honey and milk are under your tongue. The smell of your garments is like the smell of Lebanon. - Song of Solomon 4:11
Awake, north wind; and come, you south! Blow on my garden, that its spices may flow out. Let my beloved come into his garden, and taste his precious fruits. Lover - Song of Solomon 4:16
I adjure you, daughters of Jerusalem, If you find my beloved, that you tell him that I am faint with love. Friends - Song of Solomon 5:8
My beloved is white and ruddy. The best among ten thousand. - Song of Solomon 5:10
His eyes are like doves beside the water brooks, washed with milk, mounted like jewels. - Song of Solomon 5:12
His hands are like rings of gold set with beryl. His body is like ivory work overlaid with sapphires. - Song of Solomon 5:14
His legs are like pillars of marble set on sockets of fine gold. His appearance is like Lebanon, excellent as the cedars. - Song of Solomon 5:15
His mouth is sweetness; yes, he is altogether lovely. This is my beloved, and this is my friend, daughters of Jerusalem. Friends - Song of Solomon 5:16
Your head on you is like Carmel. The hair of your head like purple. The king is held captive in its tresses. - Song of Solomon 7:5
How beautiful and how pleasant you are, love, for delights! - Song of Solomon 7:6
I am my beloved's. His desire is toward me. - Song of Solomon 7:10
Set me as a seal on your heart, as a seal on your arm; for love is strong as death. Jealousy is as cruel as Sheol. Its flashes are flashes of fire, a very flame of Yah. - Song of Solomon 8:6
Many waters can't quench love, neither can floods drown it. If a man would give all the wealth of his house for love, he would be utterly scorned. Friends - Song of Solomon 8:7
in hope of eternal life, which God, who cannot lie, promised before time began; - Titus 1:2
For the overseer must be blameless, as God's steward; not self-pleasing, not easily angered, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for dishonest gain; - Titus 1:7
but given to hospitality, as a lover of good, sober minded, fair, holy, self-controlled; - Titus 1:8
To the pure, all things are pure; but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; but both their mind and their conscience are defiled. - Titus 1:15
They profess that they know God, but by their works they deny him, being abominable, disobedient, and unfit for any good work. - Titus 1:16
that older men should be temperate, sensible, sober minded, sound in faith, in love, and in patience: - Titus 2:2
in all things showing yourself an example of good works. In your teaching show integrity, seriousness, - Titus 2:7
and a sound message that cannot be condemned; that he who opposes you may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say about us. - Titus 2:8
Exhort servants to be in subjection to their own masters, and to be well-pleasing in all things; not contradicting; - Titus 2:9
not stealing, but showing all good fidelity; that they may adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior, in all things. - Titus 2:10
For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men, - Titus 2:11
instructing us to the intent that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we would live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world; - Titus 2:12
looking for the blessed hope and appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ; - Titus 2:13
who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous for good works. - Titus 2:14
Say these things and exhort and reprove with all authority. Let no man despise you. - Titus 2:15
Remind them to be in subjection to rulers and to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work, - Titus 3:1
to speak evil of no one, not to be contentious, to be gentle, showing all humility toward all men. - Titus 3:2
For we were also once foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving various lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another. - Titus 3:3
But when the kindness of God our Savior and his love toward mankind appeared, - Titus 3:4
not by works of righteousness, which we did ourselves, but according to his mercy, he saved us, through the washing of rebirth and renewing by the Holy Spirit, - Titus 3:5
whom he poured out on us richly, through Jesus Christ our Savior; - Titus 3:6
that, being justified by his grace, we might be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. - Titus 3:7
but shun foolish questionings, genealogies, strife, and disputes about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain. - Titus 3:9
Avoid a factious man after a first and second warning; - Titus 3:10
Let our people also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they may not be unfruitful. - Titus 3:14
Therefore tell them: Thus says the Lord of hosts: 'Return to me,' says the Lord of hosts, 'and I will return to you,' says the Lord of hosts. - Zechariah 1:3
Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets proclaimed, saying: Thus says the Lord of hosts, 'Return now from your evil ways, and from your evil doings;' but they did not hear, nor listen to me, says the Lord. - Zechariah 1:4
Then the angel of the Lord replied, "O Lord of hosts, how long will you not have mercy on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah, against which you have had indignation these seventy years?" - Zechariah 1:12
So the angel who talked with me said to me, "Proclaim, saying, 'Thus says the Lord of hosts: "I am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great jealousy. - Zechariah 1:14
I am very angry with the nations that are at ease; for I was but only a little angry, but they added to the calamity." - Zechariah 1:15
Therefore thus says the Lord: "I have returned to Jerusalem with mercy. My house shall be built in it," says the Lord of hosts, "and a line shall be stretched forth over Jerusalem."' - Zechariah 1:16
"Proclaim further, saying, 'Thus says the Lord of hosts: "My cities will again overflow with prosperity, and the Lord will again comfort Zion, and will again choose Jerusalem."'" - Zechariah 1:17
For I,' says the Lord, 'will be to her a wall of fire around it, and I will be the glory in the midst of her. - Zechariah 2:5
Sing and rejoice, daughter of Zion; for, behold, I come, and I will dwell in the midst of you,' says the Lord. - Zechariah 2:10
I said, "Let them set a clean turban on his head." So they set a clean turban on his head, and clothed him; and the angel of the Lord was standing by. - Zechariah 3:5
"Thus says the Lord of hosts: 'If you will walk in my ways, and if you will follow my instructions, then you also shall judge my house, and shall also keep my courts, and I will give you a place of access among these who stand by. - Zechariah 3:7
For, behold, the stone that I have set before Joshua; on one stone are seven eyes: behold, I will engrave its engraving,' says the Lord of hosts, 'and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. - Zechariah 3:9
Then he answered and spoke to me, saying, "This is the word of the Lord to Zerubbabel, saying, 'Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit,' says the Lord of hosts. - Zechariah 4:6
"Thus has the Lord of hosts spoken, saying, 'Execute true judgment, and show kindness and compassion every man to his brother. - Zechariah 7:9
Do not oppress the widow, nor the fatherless, the foreigner, nor the poor; and let none of you devise evil against his brother in your heart.' - Zechariah 7:10
Thus says the Lord of hosts: "Let your hands be strong, you who hear in these days these words from the mouth of the prophets who were in the day that the foundation of the house of the Lord of hosts was laid, even the temple, that it might be built. - Zechariah 8:9
But now I will not be to the remnant of this people as in the former days," says the Lord of hosts. - Zechariah 8:11
"For the seed of peace and the vine will yield its fruit, and the ground will give its increase, and the heavens will give their dew; and I will cause the remnant of this people to inherit all these things. - Zechariah 8:12
It shall come to pass that, as you were a curse among the nations, house of Judah and house of Israel, so will I save you, and you shall be a blessing. Do not be afraid. Let your hands be strong." - Zechariah 8:13
Rejoice greatly, daughter of Zion! Shout, daughter of Jerusalem! Behold, your king comes to you! He is righteous, and having salvation; lowly, and riding on a donkey, even on a colt, the foal of a donkey. - Zechariah 9:9
Rejoice greatly, daughter of Zion! Shout, daughter of Jerusalem! Behold, your king comes to you! He is righteous, and having salvation; lowly, and riding on a donkey, even on a colt, the foal of a donkey. - Zechariah 9:9
Turn to the stronghold, you prisoners of hope! Even today I declare that I will restore double to you. - Zechariah 9:12
For how great is his goodness, and how great is his beauty! Grain will make the young men flourish, and new wine the virgins. - Zechariah 9:17
I will strengthen them in the Lord; and they will walk up and down in his name," says the Lord. - Zechariah 10:12
The Lord will be King over all the earth. In that day the Lord will be one, and his name one. - Zechariah 14:9
I will utterly sweep away everything off of the surface of the earth, says the Lord. - Zephaniah 1:2
I will sweep away man and animal. I will sweep away the birds of the sky, the fish of the sea, and the heaps of rubble with the wicked. I will cut off man from the surface of the earth, says the Lord. - Zephaniah 1:3
I will stretch out my hand against Judah, and against all the inhabitants of Jerusalem. I will cut off the remnant of Baal from this place: the name of the idolatrous and pagan priests, - Zephaniah 1:4
Be silent at the presence of the Lord God, for the day of the Lord is at hand. For the Lord has prepared a sacrifice. He has consecrated his guests. - Zephaniah 1:7
It will happen at that time, that I will search Jerusalem with lamps, and I will punish the men who are settled on their dregs, who say in their heart, "The Lord will not do good, neither will he do evil." - Zephaniah 1:12
The great day of the Lord is near. It is near, and hurries greatly, the voice of the day of the Lord. The mighty man cries there bitterly. - Zephaniah 1:14
That day is a day of wrath, a day of distress and anguish, a day of trouble and ruin, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and blackness, - Zephaniah 1:15
Neither their silver nor their gold will be able to deliver them in the day of the Lord's wrath, but the whole land will be devoured by the fire of his jealousy; for he will make an end, yes, a terrible end, of all those who dwell in the land. - Zephaniah 1:18
Seek the Lord, all you humble of the land, who have kept his ordinances. Seek righteousness. Seek humility. It may be that you will be hidden in the day of the Lord's anger. - Zephaniah 2:3
The coast will be for the remnant of the house of Judah. They will find pasture. In the houses of Ashkelon, they will lie down in the evening, for the Lord, their God, will visit them, and restore them. - Zephaniah 2:7
Therefore as I live, says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, surely Moab will be as Sodom, and the children of Ammon as Gomorrah, a possession of nettles, and salt pits, and a perpetual desolation. The remnant of my people will plunder them, and the survivors of my nation will inherit them. - Zephaniah 2:9
This they will have for their pride, because they have reproached and magnified themselves against the people of the Lord of hosts. - Zephaniah 2:10
The Lord will be awesome to them, for he will famish all the gods of the land. Men will worship him, everyone from his place, even all the shores of the nations. - Zephaniah 2:11
This is the joyous city that lived carelessly, that said in her heart, "I am, and there is none besides me." How she has become a desolation, a place for animals to lie down in! Everyone who passes by her will hiss, and shake their fists. - Zephaniah 2:15
The Lord, in the midst of her, is righteous. He will do no wrong. Every morning he brings his justice to light. He doesn't fail, but the unjust know no shame. - Zephaniah 3:5
"Therefore wait for me," says the Lord, "until the day that I rise up to the prey, for my determination is to gather the nations, that I may assemble the kingdoms, to pour on them my indignation, even all my fierce anger, for all the earth will be devoured with the fire of my jealousy. - Zephaniah 3:8
For then I will purify the lips of the peoples, that they may all call on the name of the Lord, to serve him shoulder to shoulder. - Zephaniah 3:9
In that day you will not be disappointed for all your doings, in which you have transgressed against me; for then I will take away out of the midst of you your proudly exulting ones, and you will no more be haughty in my holy mountain. - Zephaniah 3:11
But I will leave in the midst of you an afflicted and poor people, and they will take refuge in the name of the Lord. - Zephaniah 3:12
The remnant of Israel will not do iniquity, nor speak lies, neither will a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth, for they will feed and lie down, and no one will make them afraid." - Zephaniah 3:13
Sing, daughter of Zion! Shout, Israel! Be glad and rejoice with all your heart, daughter of Jerusalem. - Zephaniah 3:14
The Lord has taken away your judgments. He has thrown out your enemy. The King of Israel, the Lord, is in the midst of you. You will not be afraid of evil any more. - Zephaniah 3:15
The Lord, your God, is in the midst of you, a mighty one who will save. He will rejoice over you with joy. He will calm you in his love. He will rejoice over you with singing. - Zephaniah 3:17
Behold, at that time I will deal with all those who afflict you, and I will save those who are lame, and gather those who were driven away. I will give them praise and honor, whose shame has been in all the earth. - Zephaniah 3:19
At that time will I bring you in, and at that time will I gather you; for I will give you honor and praise among all the peoples of the earth, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes, says the Lord. - Zephaniah 3:20
